


Question: 1 (   Incorrect - You answered: B )
A $3.2 million contract has been awarded to your company and you have been identified as the project manager. During a review of the project charter with the sponsor you both determine additional training is required. There are 12 people on your team and the finance department only has enough to fund training for half of the team. As the project manager, how should you proceed?
A Use the allotted funds to transfer the risk using a firm fixed-price contract
B Write a justification to request more funds
C Use funds from the baseline to pay the additional costs
D Train key members and have them mentor others

People - Task 5 - Ensure Team is TraineD Training can be formal or informal. By sending key members of the team to training we ensure the expertise required is available and also continuously develop the team through training and mentorship. PMBOK Guide Sixth Edition (2017) PMI/PMI/9.4.2.6 Training/p. 342


Question: 2 (   Correct - You answered: A )
You have noticed that a few of your team members have personal animosity against each other, but it has not hindered their performance or affected the team. Who is responsible for addressing this problem in the first instance?
A The team members in question
B The whole team
C The project manager
D The project champion

People - Task 2 - Lead a Team
Such problems should ideally be resolved by the team members themselves so long as the team and the work are not being affected. If that fails, the project manager will have to become more actively involved. The project champion is not necessarily part of the team but is someone who helps garner and sustain support for the project. PMBOK Guide Sixth Edition (2017) PMI/PMI/9.5.2.1 Interpersonal and Team Skills/Conflict Management/p. 348


Question: 3 (   Incorrect - You answered: B )
A previously identified technical issue has been resolved and the project is moving forward. The project manager has been warned that the same issue will probably arise on similar projects in the future. What should be done first when responding to this warning?
A Ensure that the issue log is updated.
B Create a risk report and keep the report current.
C Notify the project sponsor about the warning.
D Ensure that the lessons learned register is updated.

Process - Task 15 - Manage Issues
The issue log will help the project manager effectively track and manage issues, ensuring that they are investigated and resolved. PMBOK Guide Sixth Edition (2017) PMI/PMI/4. Project Integration Management /4.3.3.3 Issue Log/p. 96


Question: 4 (   Correct - You answered: B )
While completing your schedule model maintenance a team member informs you a stakeholder from another department has stopped sending updates, showing up to meetings, and has begun speaking negatively about the project openly. Based on the stakeholder's position and responsibilities, it is beginning to take a heavy toll on the project. What could the project manager have done to prevent this?
A Documented this risk in the risk register along with potential responses
B Conducted a stakeholder analysis and monitored stakeholder engagement more closely
C Created a communication management plan that would alert them sooner when a stakeholder was becoming resistant
D Pulled the stakeholder aside and mentor them

Process - Task 4 - Engage Stakeholders
A stakeholder analysis would have identified their power, interest, and/or influence on the project allowing the project manager to determine the proper engagement level. Monitoring the stakeholder's engagement would have increased the efficiency and effectiveness of the engagement strategies, which are generally determined, in part, by the engagement level of stakeholders. Documenting the stakeholder on the risk register would be more reactionary. The communication management plan is the wrong document use here. PMBOK Guide Sixth Edition (2017) PMI/PMI/13.4 Monitor Stakeholder Engagement/p. 530; 13.4.2.1 Stakeholder Analysis/p. 533


Question: 5 (   Correct - You answered: B )
Which of the following would be the team facilitator's least concern when building an agile team? 1 - Whether or not team skills are I-shaped or T-shaped 2 - The level and amount of agile experience 3 - If the team members can commit 100% of their time to the project 4 - All the team members are Agile certified 5 - Whether or not a stable work environment can be createD A 1 and 4
B 2 and 4
C 2 and 5
D 3 and 5

People - Task 11 - Virtual Teams
Option B is correct - the level and amount of agile experience is not something a team facilitator would concern themselves over the other three answers. Successful agile teams have dedicated personnel, are made up of a team of generalists and specialists, should be colocated for better knowledge sharing and improved team dynamics, and should have a stable work environment. The Agile Practice Guide (2017) PMI/PMI/Table 4-1 Attributes of Successful Agile Teams/p. 4


Question: 6 (   Incorrect - You answered: C )
A project has the following need: 900 resource hours must be outsourced. Because of internal policies, all providers must comprehend the requirements. Which action should the project manager take to ensure this?
A Hold direct negotiations with each provider.
B Conduct a bidder conference with the providers.
C Ensure the procurement management plan is sent to each provider.
D Have each of the providers added to the stakeholder register.

Process - Task 11 - Manage Procurement
A bidder conference is a meeting between the buyer and prospective sellers prior to proposal submittal. They are used to ensure that all prospective bidders have a clear and common understanding of the procurement and no bidders receive preferential treatment. PMBOK Guide Sixth Edition (2017) PMI/PMI/12.2.2.3 Bidder Conferences/p. 487


Question: 7 (   Incorrect - You answered: A )
Your company's Human Resources department wants to create a new web front end to its benefits system to enable all employees to register for health insurance and other benefits for the upcoming new calendar year. Since the technology is fairly new to the company and time is short, management wants to run the project in an agile fashion, since running it in a predictive fashion will take too long and will miss the registration deadline by several weeks. As the assigned project manager, you are familiar with agile but most of your team is not. Management wants the project completed in 3 weeks, and you have 6 weeks between now and the project deadline. What should you do next?
A Bring in outside agile consultants to help manage the project
B Provide coaching and mentoring in agile concepts for all team members
C Inform management that since there is insufficient agile expertise, that the project should be run in a predictive fashion
D Arrange for formal agile training for all team members

People - Task 5 - Ensure Team is TraineD While answer B is a component of servant leadership and will almost certainly be needed for his project, the best thing to do next is arrange for formal agile training for the team. Answer A is likely to be more expensive, and should only be done as a last resort (e.g., you can't get the agile training done in the time available before the project must start). Answer C isn't a viable option because it will miss the enrollment deadline by several weeks. The Agile Practice Guide (2017) PMI/PMI/3.3 Factors that Influence Tailoring/Table 3-2 Tailoring Options to Improve Fit/p. 32


Question: 8 (   Incorrect - You answered: B )
A project was not meeting scheduled dates for some tasks, so the project manager reprioritized a number of subsequent tasks to try to get the project back on track. The reprioritization did not fix the problem and now the project manager needs to escalate the issue to project stakeholders. To escalate the issue, to which plan should the project manager refer?
A Communications management plan
B Stakeholder engagement plan
C Change management plan
D Baselines for scope plan

Process - Task 2 - Manage Communications
The communications management plan is developed to ensure that the appropriate messages are communicated to stakeholders in various formats and various means as defined by the communication strategy. PMBOK Guide Sixth Edition (2017) PMI/PMI/10.1.3.1 Communications Management Plan/p. 377


Question: 9 (   Incorrect - You answered: B )
Your team has been together for a few years and is known as a highly efficient team throughout the organization. A team member who is new to the team lacks the tacit knowledge required to create some of the features. It is late in the work day and you notice the employee struggling with some work. How should you proceed?
A Offer your assistance with the creation of the feature
B Document the problem in the issue log and follow up the next business day
C Document it on the risk register and develop a potential response
D Tell the employee to follow the project management plan

People - Task 4 - Empower Team
Servant leadership is the virtue of a project manager or scrum team. We should always support the team through mentoring, encouragement, support, and on-the-job training if required. The Agile Practice Guide (2017) PMI/PMI/4.2.1 Servant Leader Responsibilities/pp. 34-37


Question: 10 (   Incorrect - You answered: B )
A project that is nearing completion has the following characteristics: It is very large, it contains functional groups in five different countries, closeout documents are being prepared, the project manager needs to gain acceptance of the project deliverables. What should the project manager do?
A Seek sign off from the project sponsor.
B Contact the steering committee for sign off.
C Seek sign off from the director of the project manager's business unit.
D Contact managers from the five countries involved in the project for sign off.

Process - Task 14 - Establish Governance
The project charter determines who will sign off on the project, but of the given options, the sponsor is the best answer due to their role. PMBOK Guide Sixth Edition (2017) PMI/PMI/4.7 Close Project or Phase/p. 124


Question: 11 (   Correct - You answered: B )
You work for Dream Homes Construction as a project manager and the company has just been awarded a contract to work on a $1.4 million home. After planning is complete the sponsor tells you she wants a profit of $250k from this project. You conduct a quick review of the budget and note this is achievable, but the budget will be tight. What mechanisms could you put in place to measure cost performance?
A Expected Monetary Value
B Earned Value Analysis
C Code of Accounts
D Chart of Accounts

Process - Task 1 - Deliver Business Value
Earned value analysis (EVA) is commonly use to compare actual results to the performance measurement baseline to determine if a change, corrective action, or preventive action is required to maintain planned value. PMBOK Guide Sixth Edition (2017) PMI/PMI/7.3 Control Costs/p. 259


Question: 12 (   Correct - You answered: C )
You are a project manager for a new medical device. Current market demand requires the new device to be capable of being used in various conditions, by differing levels of user expertise, be made available in different languages all over the world, and other external factors. Which of the following would best be utilized to analyze or identify risks for all of these factors?
A Risk register
B Stakeholder register
C PESTLE Analysis
D Probability and Impact Analysis

Business Environment - Task 3 - Evaluate Scope Changes
Of the options presented, a PESTLE analysis is used to identify the external business environment factors that can affect the value and desired outcomes of a project. PMBOK Guide Sixth Edition (2017) PMI/PMI/11.2.2.5 Prompt Lists/p. 416


Question: 13 (   Incorrect - You answered: B )
You are called to a bidder conference to bid on part of a telecommunications project. Your job as project manager will be to manage the hardware installation piece of the project. At the conference, you see a former colleague that is bidding on the wiring part of the job. You know that the integration between the wiring and the hardware can be a bit tricky and all firms competing for these two pieces of work will have to pad their bids due to the increased risk. You decide to work with your former colleague and submit one combined bid that is lower than others. This is an example of what type of risk response strategy?
A Mitigating
B Transferring
C Sharing
D Exploiting

Process - Task 3 - Manage Risks
This is an example of sharing. The new job you are bidding on is an opportunity. You decide to share the opportunity with your former colleague's company to ensure you get the work. Both companies will benefit from getting the job. PMBOK Guide Sixth Edition (2017) PMI/PMI/11.5.2.5 Strategies for Opportunities/p. 444


Question: 14 (   Incorrect - You answered: D )
A project has the following characteristics: It is in the planning stage; A key stakeholder will be unavailable for 2.5 weeks during the project. The project manager must decide what to do first, after learning about the key stakeholder's unavailability. What is the correct step to take?
A Plan a database development specification, then occasionally check to ensure the developer aligns with the specification.
B Schedule quarterly project review meetings that will include review of the data security status, and recommend remedial steps if noncompliance is found.
C Organize a meeting with the sponsor to evaluate the situation and identify alternatives.
D Continue with planning and acknowledge the impact the change may have on the project schedule.

Process - Task 15 - Manage Issues
The first thing the project manager needs to do is to capture this as an issue and communicate this to the other stakeholders. Until then, no action can or should be taken. PMBOK Guide Sixth Edition (2017) PMI/PMI/4.3.3.3 Issue Log/p. 96


Question: 15 (   Correct - You answered: B )
You are a project manager of a project close to completing the delivery of the final product when an important stakeholder contacts you about a requirement that seems to be missing from the project scope. You schedule a meeting with them to discuss the specifics of the requirement and the possible options for handling it. During the meeting, the conversation becomes somewhat heated when the stakeholder demands to know when the requirement will be completed. What is the ideal way to handle this situation?
A Use the conflict resolution technique of Smoothing to examine the alternatives and identify a win-win solution
B Explain that any details on whether the requirement is approved or might be completed would be made by the Change Control Board (CCB) and assist them in completing a change request.
C Recognize the stakeholder as a resistor and leave the meeting room to avoid further conflict with a stakeholder
D Agree to personally handle their request to ensure that it is completed as soon as possible to avoid any further conflict

People - Task 10 - Build Shared Understanding
The Change Control Board (CCB) must review and approve all change requests. Explaining this fact and then assisting with the completion of the change request is the best way to handle this. The technique of smoothing does not involve examining alternatives and is not win-win. Withdrawing during a conflict is never the best option. Agreeing to personally handle the request and to ensure it's completed as soon as possible sets an unrealistic expectation that it is already approved. PMBOK Guide Sixth Edition (2017) PMI/PMI/4.5 Perform Integrated Change Control/p. 115


Question: 16 (   Correct - You answered: C )
A product passes 96% percent of the functional requirements defined in the scope. A customer is unwilling to accept the product since it did not pass 100%. A project manager is assessing what could have been done differently to avoid this. What should the project manager have done?
A Assessed and evaluated the test management plan
B Created the work breakdown structure (WBS)
C Ensured that the quality metrics were defineD D Reviewed the requirements documentation
Process - Task 7 - Manage Quality
Quality metrics are a description of a project or product attribute and how to measure it. PMBOK Guide Sixth Edition (2017) PMI/PMI/8.1.3.2 Quality Metrics/p. 287


Question: 17 (   Incorrect - You answered: D )
According to agile principle # 4, how often should business people and agile teams work together?
A As often as possible
B Whenever a situation dictates
C Daily
D Weekly

People - Task 9 - Collaborate with Stakeholders
Option C is correct. According to agile principle number four, business people and developers must work together daily. The Agile Practice Guide (2017) PMI/PMI/2.2 The Agile Manifesto and Mindset/p. 9


Question: 18 (   Incorrect - You answered: A )
You are a project manager who has recently had a team member leave because of an illness. While searching for a replacement you identify a person who has been a stakeholder of the project and has the correct skills you were looking for. You decide she will be the perfect replacement for the lost team member and hire her. Your team has recently agreed on how the team will operate and lately has been requiring less external supervision. What is the next stage of development your team will enter after the new team member comes on board?
A Since they are requiring less external supervision they are about to enter the Performing stage
B The addition of a new team member will cause the team to enter the Storming stage
C Because the new team member has been involved as a stakeholder on the project the team will repeat the Norming stage.
D The addition of the new team member will cause the team to enter the Forming stage.

People - Task 3 - Support Team Performance
According to Tuckman's 5-stage model of group development, anytime a new member joins the team, the process starts anew with the Forming stage. PMBOK Guide Sixth Edition (2017) PMI/PMI/9.4 Develop Team/p. 338


Question: 19 (   Incorrect - You answered: D )
A company has a goal of increasing customer satisfaction within 4 months. A project is initiated to meet this goal. The project manager needs to identify best practices. What should the project manager utilize to accomplish this?
A Benchmarking
B Focus groups
C Facilitation
D Affinity diagram

Process - Task 7 - Manage Quality
Benchmarking involves comparing actual or planned products, processes, and practices to those of comparable organizations to identify best practices, generate ideas for improvement, and provide a basis for measuring performance. PMBOK Guide Sixth Edition (2017) PMI/PMI/8.1.2.2 Data Gathering/Benchmarking/p. 281


Question: 20 (   Correct - You answered: B )
Which of the following process(es) best describes why agile is ideal for planning and managing compliance?
A Multiple releases and sprints
B Adaptive planning, focus on continuous improvement, and flexibility
C Adaptive planning, retrospectives, and story point estimating
D Daily standup meeting

Business Environment - Task 1 - Manage Compliance
Option B is correct. Due to the of focus agile on quick delivery of business value through short, timeboxed iterations, the agile team is planning frequently. This allows the team to flex quickly due to any new laws or regulations that may be implemented and adapt accordingly. PMBOK Guide Sixth Edition (2017) PMI/PMI/X3.2.2 Continuous Overlapping Phases/p. 668


Question: 21 (   Incorrect - You answered: B )
As with predictive project teams, agile teams may work in a collocated or geographically distributed fashion. Which of the following least helps a virtual team work effectively?
A Remote pairing
B Fishbowl window
C Elimination of chairs in daily standup conference areas
D Document management web site

People - Task 11 - Virtual Teams
Daily standup conference areas typically do not have chairs for sitting by design, so that the attendees don't get too comfortable and the meetings run quickly, but this more directly impacts collocated teams, not virtual teams. The Agile Practice Guide (2017) PMI/PMI/4.3.7 Overcoming Organizational Silos/p. 47


Question: 22 (   Correct - You answered: C )
In agile, which of the following is not considered essential when negotiating agreements?
A Developers and customers meeting to negotiate requirements
B Working to obtain a "win-win" scenario for all parties
C Locking in contractual positions as quickly as possible
D The simplification of requirements

People - Task 8 - Negotiate Agreements
Option C is correct. In an agile context, it is considered best practice, when negotiating, to avoid locking in to contractual positions prematurely. Answers A, B, and D are all important when negotiating during agile projects. One of the four values of the Agile Manifesto is "customer collaboration over contract negotiation." The Agile Practice Guide (2017) PMI/PMI/2.2 The Agile Manifesto and Mindset /p. 8


Question: 23 (   Correct - You answered: D )
During a retrospective, your team determines the most of their impediments stem from a single stakeholder who is abusing their authority. The project lead notes this particular stakeholder has never been fond of this project and has been very vocal about it being a bad decision on the sponsor. He also states this will lead the company in the wrong strategic direction. How could this have been avoided?
A Conducted a stakeholder analysis and created a stakeholder engagement assessment matrix
B Created a salience model and inform the stakeholder that we are here to do a job regardless of our personal feelings
C Informed the sponsor at the first instance and have them get buy-in from the stakeholder
D After conducting an analysis, determined their engagement and build a relationship with the stakeholder to get their buy-in

People - Task 9 - Collaborate with Stakeholders
By assessing their power, interest, and impact the project manager could then determine the appropriate engagement level required by the stakeholder. Then they must effectively engage them according to the stakeholder engagement plan and communication management plan. PMBOK Guide Sixth Edition (2017) PMI/PMI/13.1.2.3


Question: 24 (   Correct - You answered: A )
A project is completed, but the project manager and project team members are being asked to do the following: Troubleshoot and resolve technical issues, evaluate new requirements, make minor adjustments. The project manager needs to ensure that the product developed by the project now has operational support. What should the project manager do?
A Execute the project hand-off.
B Procure project acceptance.
C Contact the project team, dismiss them from the project, and find a new project.
D Since the product is still under development, continue to fulfill the requests.

Process - Task 17 - Manage Closure
At project close, the final product, service, or result can be transitioned to a production support team. PMBOK Guide Sixth Edition (2017) PMI/PMI/4.7.3.2 Final Product, Service or Result Transition/p. 127


Question: 25 (   Incorrect - You answered: C )
Which of the following best describes Level 3 conflict?
A Individuals are more focused on winning than resolving the problem.
B Individuals take sides and are not focused on resolving the issue.
C Individuals view the conflict as a win or lose situation. One party or group wants to harm the other.
D Individuals are focused on sharing information and solving problems.

People - Task 1 - Manage Conflict
Option A is correct. When at conflict Level 3 - Contest, winning becomes more important than resolving the issue at hand. Over generalizations are made and individuals focus on blaming one another. Coaching Agile Teams (2010) Addison-Wesley Signature Series/Cohn/Figure 9-1


Question: 26 (   Incorrect - You answered: B )
Cost of Quality is defined as?
A Money spent during the project to avoid failures and divided into two categories, prevention, and appraisal
B A qualitative measurement that calculates the expected monetary value of quality control measures using the formula COQ = impact x probability x cash flow
C Money spent during and after the project to avoid failures and divided into two categories: Internal and External
D All costs over the life of the project associated with quality and divided into two categories, conformance, and nonconformance

Process - Task 7 - Manage Quality
Money spent to avoid failures is the Cost of Conformance, while money spent addressing failures is the Cost of Non Conformance. Expected monetary value can be used to calculate conformance and non-conformance costs; however, it is a quantitative calculation, not a qualitative one. PMBOK Guide Sixth Edition (2017) PMI/PMI/8.1.2.3 Data Analysis/Cost of Quality/p. 282


Question: 27 (   Incorrect - You answered: A )
During a project that is 75% complete you realize team members are starting to become complacent with the collection of information and timeliness of reports. The burndown chart shows that you will most likely be a few story points shy of finishing all 86 as projected. How should you proceed?
A Counsel them about the importance of finishing within scope, cost, and schedule
B Inform team members of the importance of finishing strong
C Conduct a review of the team charter with the team and verify the integrity of the data
D Remind team members of their responsibilities and the importance of being professional and then document it on the risk report
People - Task 6 - Build a Team
Complacency can be found on any team especially towards the end of a project. Reminding the team of the importance alone does nothing to fix complacency. PMBOK Guide Sixth Edition (2017) PMI/PMI/9.1.3.2 Team Charter/pp. 319-32


Question: 28 (   Correct - You answered: B )
A project manager needs to ensure that all data security requirements are covered during a data warehouse development project's execution stage. Each of the databases created during different project phases will have a specific data security policy to comply with governmental data security laws. How should the project manager plan to meet these requirements?
A Plan a database development specification, then regularly check to ensure the developer aligns with the specification.
B Arrange for review of the data security status on a quarterly basis, and recommend remedial steps if noncompliance is found.
C Tell the database developer to submit documentation of data security items and the steps they take to correct items that do not meet specifications.
D Add a quality assurance specialist resource to the project team, who will be responsible for monitoring the data security quality of the project.

Business Environment - Task 1 - Manage Compliance
The project review is the best opportunity to formally review compliance. These reviews should be scheduled quarterly or at significant milestones. PMBOK Guide Sixth Edition (2017) 8. Project Quality Management /Tailoring Considerations/p. 276. PMBOK Guide Sixth Edition (2017) PMI/PMI/8. Project Quality Management/8.3.1.6 Enterprise Environmental Factors/p. 301


Question: 29 (   Correct - You answered: A )
A project has the following characteristics: -A quality management plan is in place. -The quality management plan states that project deliverables must be reviewed, at a minimum, 1.5 weeks before the deadline. -Four deliverables have missed this quality requirement. What is an appropriate step for the project manager to take?
A Use a cause-and-effect diagram for root cause analysis.
B Modify the quality management plan to conform to project practices.
C Request the project to undergo an internal audit.
D Reach out to the project sponsor for their input.

Process - Task 7 - Manage Quality
By understanding the root cause of the issue, the project manager may avoid this type of problem later on in this and other projects. PMBOK Guide Sixth Edition (2017) PMI/PMI/8.2.2.3 Decision Making/p. 293


Question: 30 (   Correct - You answered: D )
One of your vendors has not completed the work required on the project and you have exhausted all other options to resolve the dispute. Which of the following is not an appropriate option?
A Lawsuit
B Arbitration
C Mediation
D Procurement audit

Process - Task 11 - Manage Procurement
If you have exhausted all other options to resolve the dispute, then your procurements specialists may consider mediation, arbitration, or even a lawsuit to resolve the dispute. A procurement audit is just a structured review of the entire procurement process as a whole, which would not be helpful to resolve a dispute. PMBOK Guide Sixth Edition (2017) PMI/PMI/12.3.2.5 Audits/p. 498


Question: 31 (   Correct - You answered: B )
Your team is 50% done with the creation of your bank application. You have been using an adaptive methodology and have a prioritized backlog. The team wants to improve their performance on cost objectives. What is the best way to do this?
A Collect lessons learneD B Conduct a retrospective
C Review project artifacts
D Review the team charter

People - Task 3 - Support Team Performance
A retrospective is used to identify what the team can improve during the upcoming sprint. Collecting lessons learned will document what went wrong, but it is planning improvements for the next iteration of work. The Agile Practice Guide (2017) PMI/PMI/5.2.1 Retrospectives/p. 5


Question: 32 (   Incorrect - You answered: C )
A project is in the execution stage. Three necessary changes are brought to the attention of the team. The team members all have differing opinions regarding how to implement the changes. What should the project manager do?
A Confirm that all team members and stakeholders understand and follow the change management plan.
B Hold a meeting with the board and project sponsor to address the issue.
C Organize a meeting with team members to review the issues and request changes where needed.
D Ensure all requested changes are applied to the project and communicate directly with all team members.

Process - Task 10 - Manage Changes
The team and project manager must follow the documented and agreed upon change management processes. PMBOK Guide Sixth Edition (2017) PMI/PMI/4.2.3.1 Project Management Plan/Additional Components/p. 88; 3. The Role of The Project Manager/3.1 Overview/p. 51


Question: 33 (   Incorrect - You answered: D )
Agile is built upon communications, including feedback loops. Which of the following would least be considered a feedback loop?
A Pair programming
B Daily scrum meeting
C Sprint
D Retrospective

Process - Task 2 - Manage Communications
Option C is correct. Pair programming, the daily scrum meeting, and retrospectives are examples of feedback loops. Information is exchanged and allows changes to be made if required. The sprint is the timebox where the agreed-upon work to obtain the sprint goal is performed. The Agile Practice Guide (2017) PMI/PMI/A3.2 Scrum/p. 101


Question: 34 (   Correct - You answered: B )
When protecting one's own group becomes a primary focus, what level of conflict do you need to navigate through?
A Level 5 - World War
B Level 4 - Crusade
C Level 2 - Disagreement
D Level 3 - Contest

People - Task 1 - Manage Conflict
Option B is correct. When conflict is considered level 4 (crusade), the focus is no longer on resolving the issue. Instead, the parties involved take sides and are focused on protecting their group. Coaching Agile Teams (2010)Addison-Wesley Signature Series/Cohn/Figure 9-1


Question: 35 (   Incorrect - You answered: C )
After a project delay, the project manager determines that a change is needed to the product deliverables in order to ensure quality. The project manager takes the following steps: 1. A formal change request is issued. 2. The project manager communicates the change to all stakeholders. 3. The project manager receives feedback that the communications approach did not meet stakeholder expectations. What should the project manager do next?
A Use the communications management and stakeholder engagement plans.
B Ensure stakeholders' expectations are included in the project management plan by issuing a change request.
C Hold a meeting with the project sponsor to better understand stakeholders' expectations.
D Refer to the communications management plan and issue a status report.

Process - Task 14 - Establish Governance
These two plans help establish how communication will be managed and how the stakeholders will be engaged. PMBOK Guide Sixth Edition (2017) PMI/PMI/13.2.3.1 Project Management Plan/p. 518


Question: 36 (   Incorrect - You answered: B )
Which of the following would be most helpful in determining the total duration of your project?
A Schedule Management Plan
B Work Breakdown Structure (WBS)
C Project Schedule Network Diagram
D Scope Statement

Process - Task 6 - Manage Schedule
The project schedule network diagram displays the relationships among activities, and would therefore be the most helpful in determining the total duration of the project. The schedule management plan would tell you how to go about schedule planning, but it would not contain information about project duration. The work breakdown structure (WBS) and scope statement would contain information about project scope, but lack sufficient detail about individual activities to determine the project duration. PMBOK Guide Sixth Edition (2017) PMI/PMI/6.5.3.2 Project Schedule/Project Schedule Network Diagram/p. 218


Question: 37 (   Correct - You answered: A )
Your organization recently decided to change from a predictive methodology to agile. During a budget meeting, a colleague does not understand why we have to use this new approach and terminology. They state they will continue to use old definitions and terms to maintain clear communication. As a project manager, what should you do?
A Explain the new terminology reminds team members to use the new methodology and promotes change
B Explain that management will most likely forget about this change in a month or two
C Do nothing, because they do not work for you
D Inform the company executive who is driving the transition so that they can champion the transition with your colleague.

Business Environment - Task 4 - Support Org Change
When companies do not change their definitions they are more likely to revert to the old ways of doing things. The agile terminology enforces change, but it must be enforced by the leadership. The Agile Practice Guide (2017) PMI/PMI/Table X2-1 Tailoring Considerations/p. 123


Question: 38 (   Incorrect - You answered: A )
Project team members are spending a lot of time helping maintenance and operations staff with a recently commissioned project component. The project manager needs to validate that the component was signed off and ownership transferred. Which three documents should the project manager use for this decision?
A Final report, organizational process assets updates, and procurement agreements
B Procurement agreements, project document updates, and organizational process assets updates
C Procurement agreements, stakeholder engagement plan, and organizational process assets updates
D Final report, project document updates, and organizational process assets updates

Process - Task 17 - Manage Closure
When closing the project, the project manager reviews the project management plan to ensure that all project work is completed and that the project has met its objectives. The project documents are updated accordingly. PMBOK Guide Sixth Edition (2017) PMI/PMI/4.7.3 Close Project or Phase: Outputs/pp. 127-128


Question: 39 (   Correct - You answered: A )
Which of the following is considered the project vision?
A The reason the project is being performeD B Who benefits from this project and how
C How will the team work together
D When will the benefits be realizeD People - Task 10 - Build Shared Understanding

Option A is correct. Why the project is being performed is considered the vision. However, who benefits and how, may occasionally be considered part of the vision. The Agile Practice Guide (2017) PMI/PMI/5.1 Charter and the Project Team/p. 49


Question: 40 (   Incorrect - You answered: A )
When an organization is considering which project life cycle methodology is appropriate to use for a given project, a suitability filter spider web diagram or model is useful. Which of the following factors is not considered when using this type of model?
A Trust
B Team Size
C Sponsorship
D Criticality

Process - Task 14 - Establish Governance
The three broad factors include culture, project and team. Trust is one of the factors under culture, criticality is under project, and team size is under team. Sponsorship is important for supporting organizational change, but it is not part of the model. The Agile Practice Guide (2017) PMI/PMI/Figure X3-1. Model for Suitability Approach/p. 127


Question: 41 (   Incorrect - You answered: D )
What is the ideal size of an effective agile team?
A 3 - 9 members
B 10 - 12 members
C 4 - 5 members
D Less than 12 members

People - Task 6 - Build a Team
In practice, the most effective team size is 3 - 9 members. Answer D is partly true but A is the best answer. The Agile Practice Guide (2017) PMI/PMI/4.3.1 Agile Teams/p. 39


Question: 42 (   Incorrect - You answered: A )
When building an agile team, which concept should be least considered?
A Build projects around motivated individuals
B Provide a supportive environment
C Trust the team to meet the deadlines
D Ensure a strong project manager is assigned for decisions and coordination

People - Task 6 - Build a Team
Option D is correct. Agile coaches are not decision makers and do not coordinate the work. Instead, they are focused on building projects around motivated individuals, providing a supportive environment, and trusting the team to meet project deadlines. The Agile Practice Guide (2017) PMI/PMI/Figure 2-2. The Twelve Principles Behind the Agile Manifesto/Number 5/p. 9


Question: 43 (   Correct - You answered: C )
A project is being planned in a remote area with limited access to vehicles and equipment. The project manager proposes that the company deliver all heavy equipment themselves despite the significant expense. The project manager will take full responsibility for this activity. What type of risk response is the project manager demonstrating?
A Transfer
B Mitigate
C Accept
D AvoiD Process - Task 3 - Manage Risks

Risk acceptance is a risk response strategy whereby the project team decides to acknowledge the risk and not take any action unless the risk occurs. PMBOK Guide Sixth Edition (2017) PMI/PMI/11.5.2.4 Strategies for Threats/p. 443


Question: 44 (   Correct - You answered: B )
Which of the following will best help an agile coach ensure team success?
A Implementing project management best practices for the team
B Removing team impediments
C Assigning project work as required to the team
D Helping the team perform the work necessary to create the product

People - Task 7 - Remove Obstacles
Option B is correct. Removing impediments is a key characteristic of servant leadership. Answers A and C are indicative of a "command and control" leadership style which is not well-suited in an agile environment. The Agile Practice Guide (2017) PMI/PMI/4.2.1 Servant Leader Responsibilities/p. 34


Question: 45 (   Correct - You answered: D )
Which of the following activities would not take place during the close of an agile project? 1 - Transition accepted deliverables to proper stakeholders 2 - Backlog grooming 3 - Retrospective 4 - Document lessons learned 5 - Create open issue and risk report
A 1 and 3
B 2 and 4
C 3 and 5
D 2 and 5

Process - Task 17 - Manage Closure
Option D is correct. Backlog grooming will occur at the end of a sprint but not the end of the full project; Creating a list of open issues and risks would not take place during the close of an agile project. However, it should be noted that answers A, B, and C would all be performed at the end of an agile project. PMBOK Guide Sixth Edition (2017) PMI/PMI/4.7.3 Close Project or Phase: Outputs/p. 127


Question: 46 (   Incorrect - You answered: C )
You have just been informed that you have been selected as the new project manager for the XYZ Widget project, which is on a very tight schedule. You recall that previous projects for this customer did not go as smoothly as planned with respect to both the budget and schedule so there is a lot of pressure to meet expectations on this new project. Which of the following should you do first?
A Schedule a kick-off meeting to begin brainstorming with your project team to review the schedule and to understand any issues or concerns that may immediately arise
B Ask for a copy of the project charter so you can review who the major stakeholders are, what the high level budget, schedule, and requirements are and verify your authority as the project manager
C Immediately begin identifying requirements in order to get a jump on the schedule since your primary concern is ensuring that the expectations of the project and the customer are fully met this time
D Review the project scope statement to ensure you fully understand all of the requirements and criteria for success and then schedule a meeting to begin identifying stakeholders

Process - Task 9 - Integrate Planning
A project is not officially authorized until the project charter has been created, so no other activities should be started until it has been created. Since you have already been identified as the new project manager, the project charter has already been created. The scope statement would not be created until after you have defined all of the requirements. PMBOK Guide Sixth Edition (2017) PMI/PMI/4.1.3.1 Project Charter/p. 81


Question: 47 (   Incorrect - You answered: C )
During your last vacation you had some time to read up on some of the new and emerging management practices. You have realized that your team does a wide array of projects and there could be a few options to pick from when it comes to getting your best results, so you decide to call a meeting with the team. As everyone is coming together you strike up the conversation and realize that a bulk of your projects have a fixed scope which rarely changes and you deliver everything at the end of the project. One of your team members brings up an exception to that norm and feels that you should have gone with an agile approach on that particular project. According to the Continuum of Life Cycles, when is the agile methodology best suited?
A When the frequency of delivery is high and degree of change is low
B When the frequency of delivery is high and degree of change is high
C When the frequency of delivery is low and degree of change is high
D When both the frequency of delivery and degree of change is low

Process - Task 13 - Determine Methodology
Option B is correct. The Continuum of Life Cycles indicates that agile is best suited when the degree of change and frequency of delivery is high. The Agile Practice Guide (2017) PMI/PMI/3.1 Characteristics of Project Life Cycles/p. 19


Question: 48 (   Incorrect - You answered: A )
You are a project manager producing several identical components for an aerospace project. You are supposed to be producing 2 units per month worth $250,000 per unit. After 3 months you have only produced an average of 1.2 units per month. You use a formula to determine what the difference is between what you planned to do and what you actually got done. What is the formula you used?
A Schedule Performance Index (SPI)
B Cost Variance (CV)
C Schedule Variance (SV)
D Variance at completion (VAC)

Process - Task 5 - Manage Budget and Resources
The


question is talking about calculating a schedule variance (SV), which is the difference between what you produced (Earned Value) and what you were supposed to complete (Planned Value). PMBOK Guide Sixth Edition (2017) PMI/PMI/7.4.2.2 Data Analysis/Earned Value Analysis/p. 261


Question: 49 (   Correct - You answered: D )
A project manager is working on a software development project. Two customers are repeatedly submitting new feature requests. The completed scope definition for the product's next version release has already been provided to stakeholders. What should the project manager do next?
A Ask to meet with the product manager and discuss reducing the number of new requests.
B Meet with the sponsor immediately to discuss project boundaries.
C Meet face-to-face with stakeholders to set expectations.
D Assess the scope management plan and iterate it through the scope definition process.

Process - Task 8 - Manage Scope
The scope management plan is needed to help control the scope of the project. PMBOK Guide Sixth Edition (2017) PMI/PMI/5.6 Control Scope/p. 167


Question: 50 (   Incorrect - You answered: D )
A project is in the development stage. During this stage, there will be sensitive client data to handle. The compliance manager raises an issue of project non-compliance. What is the first document the project manager should review to check what current items are of concern?
A Statement of Work (SOW)
B Issue log
C Business case
D Risk register

Process - Task 15 - Manage Issues
After a new issue is raised, the issue log should be reviewed prior to taking action. PMBOK Guide Sixth Edition (2017) PMI/PMI/4.3.3.3 Issue Log/p. 96


Question: 51 (   Correct - You answered: C )
A project manager is creating an agenda and presentation materials for a kick-off meeting that will involve stakeholders across multiple geographic regions who will be working on a global project. Which of the following would be the MOST important step for the project manager to ensure that the stakeholders are engaged?
A Create slides for the kick-off meeting to address stakeholder involvement.
B Survey stakeholders' preferred meeting dates and times to accommodate the teams in different time zones.
C Verify that all required participants or their delegates will be available to attend.
D Review the kick-off session agenda and materials for overall clarity and concision.

Process - Task 2 - Manage Communications
None of the other options are viable without ensuring that all stakeholders are attending the project kick off meeting. PMBOK Guide Sixth Edition (2017) PMI/PMI/13.3 Manage Stakeholder Engagement/p. 524


Question: 52 (   Correct - You answered: D )
There are three deliverables in the project manager's IT transformation project: Deliverable 2 has strictly scheduled milestones, with no expected variation in the timeline. The project manager expects that Deliverable 3 will see quickly changing requirements during development. Which lifecycle model should be used to meet the project's requirements?
A Select a fully agile project model, with a common user story and three-week sprints.
B Select a waterfall project model for deliverables, with firm milestones and change control procedures.
C Select a hybrid project model, where Deliverable 2 is positioned as a single agile sprint embedded in an overall waterfall project.
D Select a hybrid project model, where Deliverable 2 is positioned as a single waterfall phase embedded in an overall agile project.

Process - Task 1 - Deliver Business Value
In this project, two deliverables have unknown durations or changing requirement sets appropriate for agile. The migration deliverable 2 requires tight schedule control and external dependencies appropriate for a waterfall project. PMBOK Guide Sixth Edition (2017) PMI/PMI/1.2.4.1 Project Development Life Cycles/p. 19; The Agile Practice Guide (2017) PMI/PMI/3.1.9 Largely Agile Approach with a Predictive Component/p. 28


Question: 53 (   Incorrect - You answered: A )
In which meeting(s) would issues be typically reviewed?
A Daily stand-up meetings
B Sprint review meetings
C Retrospectives and daily stand-ups
D Sprint backlog meeting

Process - Task 15 - Manage Issues
Option C is correct. Project issues are reviewed during retrospectives and daily stand-up meetings. Issues in agile, like in any other project, need to be tracked and dealt with as soon as possible. The Agile Practice Guide (2017) PMI/PMI/5.2.1 Retrospectives/pp. 50-51; 5.2.4 Daily Standups/p. 53


Question: 54 (   Correct - You answered: A )
McClelland's Theory of Needs states that people fit into categories and are motivated by three types of needs. Managers should determine which of the 3 categories an employee fits into and manage them accordingly. Which of the following is not one of McClelland's 3 needs?
A Money
B Power
C Affiliation
D Achievement

People - Task 3 - Support Team Performance
McClelland's Theory of Needs states that people are either motivated by power, affiliation, or achievement. Managers should determine which category an employee falls into and manage them accordingly. People Skills for Project Managers (2001) Management Concepts/Flannes & Levin/4 Motivating Team Members/Achievement Needs Theory/pp. 144-145


Question: 55 (   Correct - You answered: D )
You are collecting requirements from all stakeholders during a planning meeting when stakeholders start having conflicting requirements. During the meeting tensions began to rise and people become disruptive to the meeting. The project manager decided to end the meeting earlier than scheduled to maintain relationships. The meeting was rescheduled for the next business day. What is the best way to proceed?
A Conduct a brainstorming session and establish ground rules
B Establish ground rules and begin discussions again
C Establish ground rules and use the Monte Carlo technique to collect requirements silently
D Establish ground rules, then use an affinity diagram to collect requirements followed by discrete voting applications

People - Task 10 - Build Shared Understanding
Establishing ground rules is a good practice, but without enforcement they are useless. Brainstorming could lead to the same results even with ground rules. Monte Carlo is a software application that calculates probability. An affinity diagram can be used as a silent information gathering technique that can be used with silent voting to prioritize requirements. PMBOK Guide Sixth Edition (2017) PMI/PMI/5.2.2.5 Data Representation/Affinity Diagrams/p. 144


Question: 56 (   Correct - You answered: B )
On your project, a deliverable was recently created but had to be reworked due to a defect. You traced the root cause to an employee who was operating off an old version of the project management plan. As a project manager, how should you proceed?
A Fire the employee for not following protocol
B Show the employee where to find the most up-to-date copy of the plan and verify they are receiving updates
C Verify the employee is receiving notifications from the project management information system (PMIS) of any changed plans according to the change control board (CCB)
D Conduct training with all team members

Process - Task 12 - Manage Artifacts
As the project manager, you want to ensure the employee is receiving updates and they know how and where to retrieve them from. Terminating the employee is an extreme measure that will add risk to your project. The change control board (CCB) does not dictate version control, they approve or reject changes. Conducting training for the entire team is a vague statement that may not identify the root cause of the problem. PMBOK Guide Sixth Edition (2017) PMI/PMI/10.3.2.4 Interpersonal and Team Skills/Observation and Conversation/p. 392


Question: 57 (   Correct - You answered: C )
You have just been identified as the project manager for a new project within your organization. You have a team with varying experiences and is also riddled with conflict. As the project manager, how should you proceed?
A Gather the team in one room and inform them of the changes they can expect
B Create a team charter, then tell the team how things will proceed from this point forwarD C Determine the best approach and have the team create a team charter
D Have team building events

People - Task 2 - Lead a Team
The team charter is created with the team and never for the team. As a new project manager, this is a good way to include the team in the process and will also serve as a team building event. PMBOK Guide Sixth Edition (2017) PMI/PMI/9.1.3.2 Team Charter/p. 319


Question: 58 (   Correct - You answered: A )
You are managing a project that will move your company's data to a new state-of-the-art data center. The biggest risk your team has identified is the risk of losing important customer records data during the move. Fortunately, most of the data is also stored on paper forms. However the cost to input the records would be very high. To address this risk you create a backup of the entire customer database as of last week, and purchase an insurance policy to pay for the cost to input data for the past 7 days. Which types of risk response strategies are you using?
A Mitigate and transfer
B Mitigate and enhance
C Mitigate and share
D Mitigate and avoiD Process - Task 3 - Manage Risks

Creating a backup of the data is an example of mitigation. Mitigation in this context is a plan you'll implement if things go wrong, to make sure the impact is minimized. The insurance policy is an example of transfer. The risk of the cost to input that data is being transferred to a third party. PMBOK Guide Sixth Edition (2017) PMI/PMI/11.5.2.4


Question: 59 (   Incorrect - You answered: D )
Which of the following would be considered agile's highest priority?
A Simplicity
B Satisfying the customer
C Working software
D Welcoming changing requirements

Process - Task 1 - Deliver Business Value
Option B is correct. The first principle outlined in the Agile Manifesto states the highest priority is to satisfy the customer through early and continuous delivery of valuable software. While answers A, C, and D are each important agile principles, they are not the highest priority. The Agile Practice Guide (2017) PMI/PMI/Figure 2-2. Twelve Principles Behind the Agile Manifesto/p. 9


Question: 60 (   Incorrect - You answered: C )
Which of the following skills will best help agile team members adapt and respond well to changes in product direction and technical changes?
A Emotional intelligence
B Technical skills
C Project management discipline
D Business acumen

People - Task 14 - Emotional Intelligence
All team members should work to exhibit initiative, integrity, emotional intelligence, honesty, collaboration, humility and willingness to communicate in various ways so that the team can work well together. These skills will increase the likelihood of team success. The Agile Practice Guide (2017) PMI/PMI/4.2.1 Servant Leader Responsibilities/Interpersonal Skills Versus Technical Skills/p. 36


Question: 61 (   Incorrect - You answered: D )
A major problem with your organizational structure is that when the project is finished, the team often has no other work to do and must be let go. Your talking to a friend about joining their company, and really like the sound to the collaboration between their project and functional managers. What types of organization structure does this refer to? 1 - Balanced Matrix 2 - Weak Matrix 3 - Functional 4 - Project-oriented 5 - Adaptive
A 4 and 5
B 1 and 4
C 2 and 3
D 1 and 3

Process - Task 13 - Determine Methodology
In a project-oriented (sometimes called projectized or composite/hybrid) organizational structure the project team reports to only one boss and is tasked with working solely on the one project. One major problem with this type of structure is what to do with the team members when the project is completed. One way this is handled is to terminate the employment of all team members. With balanced matrix organizations functional and project managers have shared authority and much collaborate in order to be effective. PMBOK Guide Sixth Edition (2017) PMI/PMI/2.4.4 Organizational Structure Types/pp. 45-49


Question: 62 (   Incorrect - You answered: B )
Developing an accurate project schedule is an important part of the planning process. You have used the Critical Path Method to ensure that you identify the critical path within your schedule network. Which of the following statements is true?
A The project schedule is often a graphical representation showing activities, start and finish dates and is used to show what has actually happened with regards to the scheduled work
B The project schedule is often a graphical representation showing the approved activities, start and finish dates and is used to compare what has actually happeneD C The project schedule is always a Gantt Chart generated from a computer program
D The project schedule is generated by a computer

Process - Task 6 - Manage Schedule
The project schedule is often a graphical representation showing activities, start and finish dates and is used to show what has actually happened with regards to the scheduled work. The baseline is described in Answer B. Answers C and D are there as distractions, as we can build a schedule with the use of software. PMBOK Guide Sixth Edition (2017) PMI/PMI/6.5.3.2 Project Schedule/p. 218


Question: 63 (   Correct - You answered: C )
Which of the following are leadership tools an agile coach would utilize to improve team performance? 1 - Estimating 2 - Prioritizing 3 - Coaching 4 - Controlling 5 - Collaboration
A 1 and 2
B 1 and 3
C 3 and 5
D 4 and 5

People - Task 3 - Support Team Performance
Option C is correct. The benefits of coaching include, but are not limited to, improving team performance, increasing personal and professional development, and enhancing self-awareness. The Agile Practice Guide (2017) PMI/PMI/4.2 Servant Leadership Empowers the Team/pp. 33-34


Question: 64 (   Correct - You answered: A )
During user testing, a client agrees to the final product. One day later the client indicates that the final product may not be acceptable. What should be the first step taken by the project manager for resolving this issue?
A Consult the project's acceptance criteria.
B Review the project's quality management plan.
C Review the project's requirements documentation.
D Refer to the project charter and lessons learned log.

Process - Task 8 - Manage Scope
The definition of acceptance criteria may significantly increase or decrease quality costs and, therefore, project costs. Satisfying all acceptance criteria implies the needs of the stakeholders have been met. PMBOK Guide Sixth Edition (2017) PMI/PMI/5.3.3.1 Project Scope Statement/p. 154


Question: 65 (   Incorrect - You answered: C )
Who is responsible for orchestrating and integrating all planning activities for an agile project?
A Project sponsor
B Project team
C Project manager
D Customers/end/users

Process - Task 9 - Integrate Planning
Agile teams are self managing, and thus make all planning decisions. PMBOK Guide Sixth Edition (2017) PMI/PMI/4. Project Integration Management/Considerations for Agile and Adaptive Environments/p. 74


Question: 66 (   Correct - You answered: A )
A project is 7 months into execution. The project manager determines that the cost performance index (CPI) is .80. According to a trend analysis, the CPI has a downward trend. What is the next step that the project manager should take?
A Issue a change request for cost re-baselining.
B Ask for additional resources.
C Crash the project schedule.
D Utilize the management reserve.

Process - Task 5 - Manage Budget and Resources
Since the project is over budget and the trend analysis show that will continue, the best course of action is to re-baseline the cost of the project and manage to that. PMBOK Guide Sixth Edition (2017) PMI/PMI/7.3.3.1 Cost Baseline/p. 254


Question: 67 (   Correct - You answered: A )
Which of the following is not included in configuration management?
A Automatic change request approvals
B Controlling changes to project deliverables
C Communicating changes to those performing the affected work
D Identification of the functional and physical attributes of the project deliverables

Process - Task 10 - Manage Changes
Choices B, C, and D are all part of configuration management. Change requests are not and should not be automatically approved. PMBOK Guide Sixth Edition (2017) PMI/PMI/4.6.2.2 Change Control Tools/pp. 118-119


Question: 68 (   Correct - You answered: D )
You have been hired as a new project manager for the new football team for your state. You have taken over a project that is 50% complete, but you notice the work being done does not match what is written in the scope baseline. The sponsor informs you that many changes have occurred and to just roll with it. What most likely is the cause of this?
A The last project manager failed to do change control and this is why they were fireD
B The change log has not been updated properly
C The organization lacks a configuration management plan
D Scope creep has most likely happened due to the lack of formal change control procedures

Process - Task 10 - Manage Changes
Formalized change control procedures reduce the chance of scope creep. A good process identifies how changes will be documented, implemented, approved, and validated. They also will conduct configuration management to ensure updates to the versions of the documents are available to all stakeholders. PMBOK Guide Sixth Edition (2017) PMI/PMI/5.6 Control Scope /p. 168


Question: 69 (   Correct - You answered: A )
A retiring project manager hands over all materials to a new project manager. The project appears to be running smoothly, until the new manager learns that a critical component has failed during testing. What is the appropriate first step when responding to this issue?
A Review the risk register to identify whether this risk and accompanying response strategies have been captured.
B Check with other local team project managers to see how they would respond to the issue.
C Revise the timeline to account for slippage due to the additional time needed to implement mitigation.
D Communicate with stakeholders, describing the issue, proposed costs, and potential changes to delivery dates related to the project.

Process - Task 3 - Manage Risks
The risk register is the document the project manager should review as it shows the identified, individual project risks, their associated strategy, contingency plans, fallback plans, triggers, any identified secondary or residual risk, as well as any specific actions to implement a chosen response strategy. PMBOK Guide Sixth Edition (2017) PMI/PMI/11.5.3.3 Project Documents Updates/Risk Register/p. 448


Question: 70 (   Correct - You answered: A )
What is the main purpose of the work breakdown structure (WBS) dictionary?
A It contains additional information about each work breakdown structure (WBS) component
B It provides a framework for how to create the work breakdown structure (WBS)
C It tracks time and cost on a project
D It contains additional information about each activity

Process - Task 8 - Manage Scope
The main purpose of the work breakdown structure (WBS) dictionary is to store additional information about each work breakdown structure (WBS) component. This can include things like work package name, ID, responsible organization, schedule milestones, quality requirements, cost estimates, required resources, code of accounts identifier, etc. PMBOK Guide Sixth Edition (2017) PMI/PMI/5.4.3.1 Scope Baseline/WBS Dictionary/p. 162


Question: 71 (   Correct - You answered: C )
A project manager is faced with two team members who have a conflicting view of how the work on the project should be done. The project manager sits down with the two team members and calmly discusses the options and benefits of each method. At the end of the meeting, they come up with a solution that both agree to. This is an example of what?
A Compromise
B Forcing
C Collaborating
D Withdrawal

People - Task 1 - Manage Conflict
This is an example of collaborating, also known as problem solving. With collaborating you discuss all options and work through the problem. With compromise you meet in the middle without much real discussion. PMBOK Guide Sixth Edition (2017) PMI/PMI/9.5.2.1 Interpersonal and Team Skills/Conflict Management/pp. 348-349


Question: 72 (   Incorrect - You answered: B )
For a software development project, which project life cycle/methodology lends itself best to a mutual understanding of requirements between customers/end users and the project team?
A Agile
B Six SigmA C Waterfall
D Iterative

People - Task 10 - Build Shared Understanding
When working on a software project, agile is the most often preferred life cycle approach. This allows the team autonomy to self-create and direct, as well as work directly with the customer or end user on the final product outcome. The Agile Practice Guide (2017) PMI/PMI/3.1 Characteristics of Project Life Cycles/Agile Life Cycles/p. 19


Question: 73 (   Correct - You answered: D )
Which of the following statements is true regarding risk management?
A Risks are events that have occurred on a project, and may be helpful (opportunities) or hurtful (threats)
B Risks might be opportunities to the project objectives, but only risks that are threats to the project objectives need to be considereD
C Risks that are perceived more as rewards to the organization than negative consequences should be accepteD
D Project risks are uncertain events
Process - Task 3 - Manage Risks
Risks are always uncertain events and need to be considered whether they are positive or negative. Even risks that involve perceived rewards should be analyzed. PMBOK Guide Sixth Edition (2017) PMI/PMI/Glossary/Definitions/p. 72


Question: 74 (   Incorrect - You answered: A )
Which of the following is not considered a servant leader responsibility?
A Educating stakeholders on the benefits of servant leadership and the benefits of agile
B Creating the project development approach and processes
C Providing coaching, mentoring, encouragement and support
D Assisting with technical project management activities

People - Task 5 - Ensure Team is TraineD Option B is correct. Servant leadership does not encompass creating the project development approach or processes. However, a few of the responsibilities of a servant leader are: (1) educating stakeholders on the benefits of agile; (2) provide coaching, mentoring, and support; and (3) assisting by performing the technical aspects of project management. The Agile Practice Guide (2017) PMI/PMI/4.2.1.4 Consider These Servant Leadership Responsibilities/p. 36


Question: 75 (   Correct - You answered: C )
Who decides what work gets done in an agile team?
A The project sponsor
B Key stakeholders
C The agile team as a whole, which is self-managing
D The project manager

People - Task 4 - Empower Team
Answer C is the most inclusive. The team should be self-managing. The Agile Practice Guide (2017) PMI/PMI/4.3.1 Agile Teams/p. 39


Question: 76 (   Correct - You answered: B )
You are in the planning stages of a project to build a shopping mall in a small community in a nearby town. You have used bottom-up estimating to determine costs for each activity and have created a cost baseline. Which of the following statements is true?
A Bottom-up estimating is the most labor intensive and not quite as accurate as parametric estimating.
B Bottom-up estimating is the most labor intensive and is more accurate than parametric estimating.
C You have completed the Estimating Costs process and will use the cost baseline to begin the Determine Budget process which will create the budget performance baseline used to measure future project performance.
D You have completed the Determine Budget process and will use the cost baseline to begin the Establish Budget process which will create the budget performance baseline used to measure future project performance.

Process - Task 5 - Manage Budget and Resources
Bottom-up estimating takes the most time but is the most accurate since it aggregates the cost of every activity. There is no such thing as a budget performance baseline. PMBOK Guide Sixth Edition (2017) PMI/PMI/6.4.2.5 Bottom-up Estimating/p. 202


Question: 77 (   Correct - You answered: A )
As an agile coach, what would you not do to improve team empowerment? 1 - Make overarching project decisions based on team input 2 - Develop a well structured system for the team to stick to 3 - Encourage project responsibility to the team 4 - Coach team members to enhance team performance 5 - Allow the team members to assign each other work items 6 - Mentor team members for professional development
A 1, 2, and 5
B 1, 3, and 4
C 2, 5, and 6
D 1, 3, and 6

People - Task 4 - Empower Team
Option A is correct. As an agile coach, you do not make decisions for the team. Decisions are obtained from the self-directed agile team. As an agile coach, to improve team empowerment, you would mentor team members, encourage them to take responsibility for the work to be performed, and utilize coaching opportunities to improve team performance. The Agile Practice Guide (2017) PMI/PMI/4.2 Servant Leadership Empowers the Team/p. 33


Question: 78 (   Correct - You answered: B )
When working as a project manager there are many things around you that can impact the project's ability to be successful, including the corporate culture, infrastructure, marketplace conditions, the number and type of resources available, workplace attitudes, etc. These are referred to as which of the following?
A Organizational process assets
B Enterprise environmental factors
C Lesson learneD D Constraints
Business Environment - Task 3 - Evaluate Scope Changes
The


question lists just a few of the many enterprise environmental factors listed in the PMBOK Guide. PMBOK Guide Sixth Edition (2017) PMI/PMI/2.2 Enterprise Environmental Factors/pp. 38-39


Question: 79 (   Incorrect - You answered: D )
During the design phase of a construction project, two team members do not agree with an estimating technique used for cost. The situation was not resolved and has escalated into a bigger problem that is beginning to impact project objectives. How could this problem have been avoided?
A The project manager should have documented the problem on the issue log
B The project manager should have documented this on the risk register
C The project manager should have escalated the problem to the sponsor for resolution
D The project manager should have submitted a change request to update the cost management plan

Process - Task 15 - Manage Issues
Since this situation indicates something has already happened - it is an issue and not a risk. The issue log will help the project manager effectively track and manage issues, ensuring that they are investigated and resolved. The risk register is for events that pose a threat to the project, but have not yet occurred, and the team proactively attempts to manage them. PMBOK Guide Sixth Edition (2017) PMI/PMI/4.3.3.3 Issue Log/p. 96


Question: 80 (   Correct - You answered: C )
Which of the following project life cycle methods is most suitable for delivering business value in the shortest timeframe?
A Six SigmA
B Waterfall
C Scrum
D Capability Maturity Model Integration (CMMI)

Process - Task 1 - Deliver Business Value
Scrum is one of several agile methods (The Agile Practice Guide (2017) PMI/PMI/2.2 The Agile Manifesto and Mindset/Figure 2-4. Agile is a Blanket Term for Many Approaches/p. 11). Agile delivers value in short increments, typically 2 weeks to 1 month in duration. All other methods typically take more time. Waterfall is a predictive approach. Six Sigma focuses on process improvement. Capability Maturity Model Integration (CMMI) focuses on maturity assessment.


Question: 81 (   Incorrect - You answered: B )
You are the project manager for a large pharmaceutical company that recently partnered with another organization that reduces packaging costs for your organization under the auspice of a cost-reimbursable contract. After a risk workshop meeting, you find out two team members do not agree on a proposed solution for a risk to cost. You decide to let them come to a resolution on their own, but you document it on the issue log. What conflict management technique did you implement?
A Direct/Force
B Retreat/AvoiD
C Compromise/Reconcile
D Withdraw/AvoiD People - Task 1 - Manage Conflict

Withdraw/Avoid is retreating from the conflict. The project manager is allowing the team members to resolve the issue themselves. By putting it on the issue log they are ensuring they will follow up on the conflict to make sure it is resolved. PMBOK Guide Sixth Edition (2017) PMI/PMI/9.5.2.1 Interpersonal and Team Skills/Conflict Management/pp. 348-349


Question: 82 (   Incorrect - You answered: C )
A project manager is uncertain about the duration of a new product development project and consults several groups of subject matter experts (SMEs). They advise that the fastest development could possibly be finished is in 8 days. However, they have also identified some risks that could make the duration up to 32 days. Realistically, using standard development methods, the project should take 14 days. The team agrees that this final estimate is the most likely to occur and should be weighted by 4x accordingly. What is the estimated development duration for the new product?
A 12
B 16
C 18
D 2Process - Task 5 - Manage Budget and Resources

Using the Program Evaluation and Review Technique (PERT) method of three-point estimating, the formula is (Optimistic + (4 X Most Likely) + Pessimistic)/6 = (8 + (4*14) + 32)/6 = 16 days. PMBOK Guide Sixth Edition (2017) PMI/PMI/7.2.2.5 Three-Point Estimating/p. 245


Question: 83 (   Incorrect - You answered: B )
Which of the following is not an approach an agile coach would use to accelerate cultural compatibility for agile?
A Communication and coaching
B Incremental implementation of agile practices
C Adopting agile progressively on a project-by-project basis
D Terminating any one that failed to adhere to agile principles

Business Environment - Task 4 - Support Org Change
Option D is correct. To accelerate a change in organizational culture to sustain and benefit from agile, an agile coach would focus on: (1) communication and coaching; (2) implementing agile practices slowly to create buy-in and transfer knowledge; and (3) adopt the agile methodology only for projects that would be best suited by that methodology. The Agile Practice Guide (2017) PMI/PMI/6.1.2 Readiness for Change/p. 74


Question: 84 (   Incorrect - You answered: C )
In which of the following team-building stages does the team begin to work together and build good working relationships?
A Storming
B Performing
C Forming
D Norming

People - Task 6 - Build a Team
Tuckman's five stages of team development are Forming, Storming, Norming, Performing, and Adjourning. Forming is where the team is initially brought together; Storming is where the team has disagreements; Norming is where the team begins to work together; Performing is where the team reaches optimal performance; Adjourning is where the team disbands and is sometimes referred to as "mourning". PMBOK Guide Sixth Edition (2017) PMI/PMI/9.4 Develop Team/pp. 337-338


Question: 85 (   Incorrect - You answered: D )
During which stage of team development is it crucial for team members to work on tolerance and patience with one another?
A Storming
B Forming
C Performing
D Norming

People - Task 6 - Build a Team
Option A is correct. This


question is focused on the stages of team development (Tuckman's Ladder: Forming, Storming, Norming, Performing, Adjourning). During the storming phase, individuals need to be focused on tolerance and patience. If these two objectives are not met, the team may flounder and remain in the storming stage. A team in the storming phase is not a high-performing team. PMBOK Guide Sixth Edition (2017) PMI/PMI/9.4 Develop Team/pp. 337-338


Question: 86 (   Correct - You answered: D )
Which of the following is not considered a servant leader's responsibility when mentoring?
A Transferring your agile knowledge to others
B Sharing your agile experiences with others
C Supporting others and providing professional development opportunities
D Making the best decisions for the project team

People - Task 13 - Mentor Stakeholders
Option D is correct. Making the best decisions for the project team is not a servant leadership responsibility. Agile teams are self-directing and make their own decisions. Answers A, B, and C are all responsibilities of a servant leader. The Agile Practice Guide (2017) PMI/PMI/4.2 Servant Leadership Empowers the Team /pp. 33-34


Question: 87 (   Incorrect - You answered: D )
You are a project manager in the Information Technology department. Your company is new to agile concepts, and while most of your department is familiar with and on board with agile, most of the business units are not. Since key stakeholders will now become part of agile teams, you realize that you will need to mentor and coach them during sprints to help "sell" them on the benefits of agile to help keep them properly engaged. Which of the following would not be a typical benefit of using agile?
A Improved quality from more frequent reviews
B Requirements are allowed to change to better match business needs on a rolling basis
C Greater accountability and productivity of empowered teams
D Increased focus on business value based on prioritization of requirements

People - Task 13 - Mentor Stakeholders
While a self organizing empowered team is a crucial part of agile, this is one of the areas that predictive management often struggles with due to a lack of trust or feeling of not being involved the same way as before. Each of the other elements directly ties to business value and can usually be accepted more quickly. The Agile Practice Guide (2017) PMI/PMI/3.1 Characteristics of Project Life Cycles/pp. 18-19


Question: 88 (   Incorrect - You answered: D )
In agile, what is the most important reason to build, test, and review small increments?
A It evaluates and delivers continuous benefits and value
B It reduces future testing of the work product at the time of release
C It promotes relationship building between the agile team and business people
D It reduces issues and risk

Business Environment - Task 2 - Evaluate/ Deliver Benefits
Option A is correct. By building, testing, and reviewing small increments, business value is evaluated and delivered continuously. The first agile principle is about delivering business value early and continuously. The Agile Practice Guide (2017) PMI/PMI/2.2 The Agile Manifesto and Mindset/p. 8; 2.4 Uncertainty, Risk, and Life Cycle Selection/p. 16


Question: 89 (   Correct - You answered: C )
Your company is fairly new to agile. You've just been assigned to an agile project that will likely consist of multiple 2-week sprints to deploy a functionality for a new project benefit tracking system. Your team has been trained, but most of the key stakeholders have never heard of agile, much less participated in an agile project. Which of the following would be least helpful in this situation?
A Educate stakeholders around why and how to be agile
B Include key stakeholders as members of the project team
C Update the Stakeholder register to indicate which stakeholders have agile experience
D Champion the importance of having subject matter experts (SMEs) on the team from each affected department

People - Task 9 - Collaborate with Stakeholders
You might still do answer C, but the others are more helpful in terms of actually engaging with stakeholders, which is essential for all projects--especially agile projects. The Agile Practice Guide (2017) PMI/PMI/4.3 Team Composition/p. 38


Question: 90 (   Correct - You answered: A )
You are leading a project to create a degree plan for a regionally accredited university. The new degree is highly specialized and requires the approval of curriculum by governing body of electrical engineers. The program already has students enrolled, but they will not start until the fall which is three months away. If the program fails to meet the standards mandated by the Society of Electrical Engineers it would be public relations nightmare. What should the project manager do to ensure all requirements are met?
A Create a tailored quality management process to any specific quality standards and regulatory constraints
B Create a policy and based on Organizational Process Assets (OPA) and conduct audits
C Enter into a contract with the engineers to oversee all compliance requirements
D Seek out insurance to hedge against financial liability and bring a PR agency on board in case of failure.

Business Environment - Task 1 - Manage Compliance
Tailoring considerations include standards and regulatory compliance to quality standards, governmental, legal, or regulatory constraints that must be considered. PMBOK Guide Sixth Edition (2017) PMI/PMI/8. Project Quality Management/Tailoring Considerations/p. 276


Question: 91 (   Incorrect - You answered: B )
You are managing the implementation of new accounting software at your company. Two of your stakeholders have a disagreement as to when to do the kickoff meeting. One wants to do it before planning begins and the other wants to do it at the end of planning. One stakeholder is senior to the other, however, and so she insists that it will be done at the beginning, and closes the issue. This is best described as which of the following?
A Withdraw/AvoiD
B Force/AvoiD
C Force/Direct
D Withdraw/Direct

People - Task 1 - Manage Conflict
Here, the more senior stakeholder used forcing to get what she wanted. Forcing is a win-lose situation because one person gets everything he or she wants, and the other person gets none of what he or she wants. PMBOK Guide Sixth Edition (2017) PMI/PMI/9.5.2.1 Interpersonal and Team Skills/Conflict Management/pp. 348-349


Question: 92 (   Incorrect - You answered: B )
Today you sign into your teams platform to get up to speed on what the Asia-Pacific team has been up to since you signed off last night to enjoy an evening with the family. As you are scrolling through the conversation string you notice that a few comments came up that seem like one of your team members has taken offense to one of the comments left by one of the North American team members from yesterday. Which of Maslow's hierarchy of needs involves the need for friends, family and affiliation? Also, what is the level just below that?
A Social, Safety
B Social, Esteem
C Cultural, Social
D Cultural, Safety

People - Task 3 - Support Team Performance
The rung on Maslow's pyramid that is marked by an individual's need for friends, family, and affiliation is the Social level. The level just below that is Safety. The five levels in order from bottom to top are physiological, safety, social, esteem and self-actualization; cultural is not part of Maslow's pyramid. Project Manager's Portable Handbook, 3rd Ed (2010) /5. Project Leadership /5.7 Motivating the Project Team /5.7.2 Maslow /Figure 5-8. Maslow's Order of Priority of Human Needs


Question: 93 (   Incorrect - You answered: C )
Where are requirements captured and documented in agile projects?
A Sprint backlog
B Scope statement
C Requirements traceability matrix
D Product backlog

Process - Task 8 - Manage Scope
A product backlog contains all requirements in the form of user stories. A sprint backlog is a refinement of the collection of user stories selected for a specific iteration or sprint. Scope statement and requirements traceability matrix are more suitable for predictive projects. PMBOK Guide Sixth Edition (2017) PMI/PMI/5 Project Scope Management/Key Concepts/p. 131; Considerations for Agile and Adaptive Environments/p. 133


Question: 94 (   Incorrect - You answered: D )
When negotiating contracts with customers involving agile projects, a collaborative approach is recommended, since it emphasizes win-win between the buyer and seller vs. win-lose arrangements. Which of the following is not a characteristic of a collaborative approach?
A Emphasizing value delivereD
B Single document contract
C Graduated time and materials
D Fixed price increments

People - Task 8 - Negotiate Agreements
A multi-tiered contract structure provides for a master agreement to cover fixed items such as warranties and remedies, and including other elements that are more subject to change in other documents (e.g., schedule of services). The Agile Practice Guide (2017) PMI/PMI/6.3 Procurement and Contracts/p. 77


Question: 95 (   Correct - You answered: A )
A project team has set up an unofficial online communications platform to enhance communication. The project manager was not aware that this platform existed until recently, after learning that it was being used inappropriately. Which action should the project manager take?
A Have the project team stop using the platform, and then review the communications management plan.
B Report the issue to the compliance office after disciplining the individuals involved.
C Since it is not part of the communications management plan, terminate the platform.
D Delegate an administrator to monitor communications on this platform.

Process - Task 2 - Manage Communications
Since this platform was not part of the original communications plan, it should not be used. The project manager needs to refer the team members back to the approved project communications plan. PMBOK Guide Sixth Edition (2017) PMI/PMI/10.1.3.1 Communications Management Plan/p. 377


Question: 96 (   Correct - You answered: C )
Who is responsible for approving the project management plan?
A Project manager and stakeholders
B Project manager and sponsor
C Project manager, sponsor and key stakeholders
D Sponsor only

Process - Task 9 - Integrate Planning
The project management plan is the master plan from which a predictive project will be executed. It is the responsibility of all key parties (project manager, sponsor, and key stakeholders) to approve the project management plan. PMBOK Guide Sixth Edition (2017) PMI/PMI/1.2.6.3 Project Charter and Project Management Plan/p. 34; 1.2.6.4 Project Success Measures/p. 34


Question: 97 (   Correct - You answered: C )
What is the social contract that outlines group norms, ground rules, and team values?
A Project charter
B Communication plan
C Team charter
D Retrospective

People - Task 12 - Ground Rules
Option C is correct. The team charter is a social contract between project team members that outlines, among other things, team values, working agreements, ground rules, group norms, etc. The Agile Practice Guide (2017) PMI/PMI/5.1 Charter the Project and the Team/pp. 49-5


Question: 98 (   Incorrect - You answered: A )
You are an agile coach in an organization that is starting to implement agile. What can be done to ease the transition to agile while beginning to satisfy certain aspects of the organization's current project management governance model?
A Use agile friendly reports and metrics to report project progress
B Educate your project management office on the benefits of agile
C You must change the current project governance model before implementing agile
D Alter your project reporting to fit governance expectations

Process - Task 14 - Establish Governance
Option D is correct. As an agile coach, you could alter your agile friendly information (burn up or burn down charts) to the required format (for example, a Gantt chart). Additionally, you could use story points, burn rate, and actual costs to provide earned value metrics. PMBOK Guide Sixth Edition (2017) PMI/PMI/1.2.6.4 Project Success Measures/p. 34


Question: 99 (   Correct - You answered: B )
A client's employee asks the project manager for an additional, new product feature during a status meeting. To what document should the project manager first refer to find out who has the authority to approve this request?
A Change log
B Change management plan
C Original contract documents and RACI matrix
D Change request document

Process - Task 10 - Manage Changes
The change management plan describes the process for submitting, evaluating and implementing changes to the project. PMBOK Guide Sixth Edition (2017) PMI/PMI/4.2.3.1 Project Management Plan/p. 88


Question: 100 (   Correct - You answered: A )
Your organization specializes in making, selling, and shipping steel used to build skyscrapers in major cities across the United States. Your shipments of steel are sent monthly based on a firm fixed-price contract with economic price adjustments (EPA). The end of the fiscal year is approaching and a new contract has just been negotiated to account for EPA. You later find out new tariffs are placed against steel and the cost to manufacture and ship steel skyrocket. Your customers will most likely do what is most cost-effective for them and leave your organization. What is the best way this could have been avoided?
A Monitor enterprise environmental factors (EEFs) and develop solutions ahead of time which you can quickly execute
B Conduct a retrospective to determine what indicators you missed and make to note in the company ledger
C Create a super PAC (Political Action Committee) to lobby foreign governments
D Establish a clause in the contract which makes early termination expensive for the customer

Business Environment - Task 3 - Evaluate Scope Changes
Companies are expected to practice efficient project management practices. This will allow them to respond to the impact of business environment changes on a project by appropriately adjusting the project management plans. In this case, monitoring the enterprise environmental factor (EEF) of market conditions and regulatory frameworks, their customers could have allowed for adjustments earlier to avoid this situation. PMBOK Guide Sixth Edition (2017) PMI/PMI/2.2.2 Enterprise Environmental Factors External to the Organization/p. 39


Question: 101 (   Correct - You answered: C )
Which of the following should be done during the Develop Project Charter process?
A Identify risks and their risk responses to ensure the project plan is as stable as possible
B Decompose the scope of the project into more precise deliverables and activities to allow for the most accurate and confident estimate
C Perform a benefit analysis to validate project alignment with the organization's strategy and ensure the expected business value is doable
D Ensure all stakeholders have been identified with the appropriate strategies defined for engaging them effectively

Process - Task 9 - Integrate Planning
A is done in the Identify Risks and Plan Risk Responses processes, although some risks could have been identified during the develop project charter process. B is the Create work breakdown structure (WBS) and Define Activities processes. D is the Identify Stakeholders and Plan Stakeholder Engagement processes. PMBOK Guide Sixth Edition (2017) PMI/PMI/3.4.3 Strategic and Business Management Skills/pp. 58-6


Question: 102 (   Correct - You answered: A )
Which of the following is true about the procurement statement of work?
A It outlines the items to be provided via the procurement
B It is written by the vendor after receiving the project scope statement
C It is written by the seller as the response to a Request for Proposal (RFP)
D It is written by the buyer in response to a Request for Quote (RFQ)

Process - Task 1 - Deliver Business Value
A procurement statement of work (SOW) is a narrative description of the products or services to be delivered by the seller/vendor and is provided to the seller/vendor to aid in deciding if they are capable of providing the goods or services. While an RFQ or an RFP could include an SOW, it would be provided along with it and not as a response. PMBOK Guide Sixth Edition (2017) PMI/PMI/12.1.3.4 Procurement Statement of Work/p. 477


Question: 103 (   Correct - You answered: A )
You recently took over a team from a project manager who submitted their two week resignation in lieu of being terminated. You notice the team lacks trust and commitment as well as harboring resentment issues. As the project manager, what is the first thing you should do?
A Hold a collaboration meeting with the team to discuss the team vision
B Conduct brainstorming sessions with the team to identify causes of dysfunction
C Define the team vision, then brainstorm the root cause of any issues
D Review the team charter and document on the risk register

People - Task 12 - Ground Rules
The first step is to discuss the team vision and build a consensus with all team members. Once complete, brainstorming the root cause of the issues can proceed. Defining the team vision for the team does not create buy-in, this must be done with the team. Annotating it on the risk register would not be your first step. PMBOK Guide Sixth Edition (2017) PMI/PMI/9. Project Resource Management/Trends and Emerging Practices/p. 31


Question: 104 (   Correct - You answered: D )
Who is primarily responsible for ensuring team members and stakeholders are trained on the concepts of agile?
A Product owner
B Development team
C Managers
D Agile coach

People - Task 5 - Ensure Team is TraineD Option D is correct. An agile coach is responsible for ensuring stakeholders and the agile team understands the agile philosophy, tools and techniques, and methods. The Agile Practice Guide (2017) PMI/PMI/Table 4-2. Agile Team Roles/p. 41


Question: 105 (   Correct - You answered: A )
Which of the following would be least useful in establishing a strong project vision?
A Creating a highly-detailed vision that focuses on what will be done
B Creating a vision that is customer focuseD C Frequently discussing the product vision
D Ensure the product vision aligns with the organization's overall vision and strategy

People - Task 10 - Build Shared Understanding
Option A is correct. A highly-detailed and complex vision is difficult to remember and may confuse team members. A short, concise project vision offers clarity. Answers B, C, and D would each assist in building a strong project vision. The Agile Practice Guide (2017) PMI/PMI/5.1 Charter the Project and the Team/p. 49


Question: 106 (   Correct - You answered: B )
What is the best style of leadership for an agile team?
A Executive oversight
B Servant leadership
C Functional management
D Steering committee

People - Task 2 - Lead a Team
Agile teams thrive with servant leadership. The Agile Practice Guide (2017) PMI/PMI/4.3.1 Agile Teams/p. 39


Question: 107 (   Correct - You answered: B )
What is the term you would use to describe the amount of time an activity can be delayed without delaying the successor activities?
A Critical path methoD
B Free float
C Total float
D Lag

Process - Task 6 - Manage Schedule
Free float is the amount of time an activity can be delayed without delaying the earliest start of a successor activity. Total float is the amount of time an activity can be delayed without delaying the entire project. PMBOK Guide Sixth Edition (2017) PMI/PMI/Glossary/Free Float/p. 707


Question: 108 (   Incorrect - You answered: A )
What are the primary benefit of the sprint review meeting? 1 - The analysis of what the team did well, and could be improved 2 - Elicit feedback on the work that has been completed 3 - Updating the sprint backlog 4 - The evaluation and delivery of project value 5 - Meeting daily to discuss the team's impediments
A 1 and 3
B 2 and 3
C 4 and 5
D 2 and 4

Business Environment - Task 2 - Evaluate/ Deliver Benefits
Option D is correct. The sprint review meeting focuses on demonstrating and delivering working software from the prior sprint that meets the acceptance criteria defined by the product owner. The Agile Practice Guide (2017) PMI/PMI/5.2.5 Demonstrations/Reviews/p. 55


Question: 109 (   Incorrect - You answered: D )
Review the following project characteristics: -The project is in its initiation stage. -Due to lack of funding, the project gets terminated. -The project manager must close the project. What is the first action the project manager should take?
A Rely on the communications management plan to properly inform all stakeholders.
B Examine the organization's project closure guidelines.
C Determine the potential impact of terminating the project by performing a risk analysis.
D Close all project procurement processes.

Process - Task 17 - Manage Closure
Project closure guidelines or requirements will be contained in the organization's procedures. PMBOK Guide Sixth Edition (2017) PMI/PMI/2.3.1 Organizational process Assets/p. 41


Question: 110 (   Correct - You answered: A )
Both the project sponsor and project team assure a project manager the new project has a realistic schedule and an adequate budget. The project manager worries that unplanned events could threaten the project's success. How should the project manager respond to this concern?
A List and assess any project risks.
B Ask for additional funding to cover project planning.
C Schedule a meeting with the functional manager to address the potential impact of unplanned risks.
D Review the original project plan and focus on completing the plan on schedule.

Process - Task 3 - Manage Risks
Project managers need to be proactive and familiarize themselves with the identified risks and their mitigation strategies. PMBOK Guide Sixth Edition (2017) PMI/PMI/11.1 Plan Risk Management/p. 401


Question: 111 (   Incorrect - You answered: B )
A large project includes functional groups in four countries. It is close to completion, so the project manager must prepare the closeout documents. How should the project manager obtain appropriate signoff on the acceptance of project deliverables?
A The project sponsor should be asked to sign off.
B The steering committee should be asked to sign off.
C The director of the project manager's business unit should be asked to sign off.
D The four managers from the four countries should be asked to sign off.

Process - Task 14 - Establish Governance
Since the sponsor provided the resources for the project, it is their responsibility to officially sign off on the project deliverables. PMBOK Guide Sixth Edition (2017) PMI/PMI/4.7.1.4 Accepted Deliverables/p. 124


Question: 112 (   Incorrect - You answered: B )
Your project team does not understand the fundamentals of project management. You feel this has the potential to harm your project. You decide to put together a half-day training session to teach project management basics. Which of the following have you achieved by having this training?
A Develop your project team
B Avoid Risk
C Acquire Resources
D Analyze Risk

People - Task 5 - Ensure Team is TraineD This is an example of developing your project team because you are enhancing the team's overall competencies and skills. Note that B is incorrect because avoiding a risk means taking it off the table completely, but project failures could still occur notwithstanding the training. PMBOK Guide Sixth Edition (2017) PMI/PMI/9.4 Develop Team/p. 336


Question: 113 (   Correct - You answered: C )
During a challenging shareholder meeting, the customer indicates that they will reject an iteration's deliverable. What should the project manager do?
A Send a request to the project sponsor, asking them to update the project charter then reassign the responsibilities and authorities.
B Meet with the project team to add new and improved features to replace the features that were rejected.
C Work with stakeholders to create a shared approach that will address the issues of concern.
D File a change request with the change control board (CCB) in order to add budget to the baseline.

Process - Task 16 - Knowledge Transfer
Before initiating any action the project manager should work with the team to identify the root cause of the problem and build an approach to conduct the project for the next iterations. As a hybrid approach a retrospective ceremonial can be a good option to solve this situation. PMBOK Guide Sixth Edition (2017) PMI/PMI/Part 2. The Standard for Project Management/5.1 Monitor and Control Project Work/p. 615


Question: 114 (   Correct - You answered: A )
A story point is best defined as which of the following?
A Story points are a measurement of capacity
B Story points are a measurement of time
C Story points are a measurement of cost
D Story points are a measurement of completed stories

Process - Task 6 - Manage Schedule
Story points are a unit-less measure used in relative user story estimation techniques typically used to measure capacity or effort. They are not time or cost. The Agile Practice Guide (2017) PMI/PMI/5.4.1 Agile Teams Measure Results/pp. 61-64


Question: 115 (   Correct - You answered: D )
What is the agile coach doing when they discuss their past agile experiences with a new team member?
A Coaching
B Training
C Controlling
D Mentoring

People - Task 13 - Mentor Stakeholders
Option D is correct. Mentoring involves the transfer of knowledge to advise, counsel, or guide individuals. Coaching, on the other hand, is aimed at improving team performance. Primarily, this is done by helping (through facilitation) an individual or team develop their own creative solutions to solve problems or capitalize on opportunities. The Agile Practice Guide (2017) PMI/PMI/Table 5-1. Agile Pain Points and Troubleshooting Possibilities/Teams Struggles with Obstacles/p. 58


Question: 116 (   Incorrect - You answered: D )
Team performance can be enhanced when agile practitioners apply emotional intelligence. Which of the following is not a component of emotional intelligence?
A Self awareness
B Relationship management
C Social evaluation
D Self management

People - Task 14 - Emotional Intelligence
Option C is correct. Emotional intelligence is comprised of four components; (1) self-awareness; (2) self-management (3) social-awareness; and (4) relationship management. Emotional intelligence is a social skill used to improve self and team performance. PMBOK Guide Sixth Edition (2017) PMI/PMI/9 Project Resource Management/Trends and Emerging Practices in Project Resource Management/Emotional Intelligence/p. 31


Question: 117 (   Incorrect - You answered: D )
While communicating an issue with the project with one of the stakeholders, they begin crossing their arms and becoming very defensive with you. You require their support on this project and they are known to be passive aggressive. How should you proceed?
A They concur with your thoughts on the issue and they are frustrated with the engineers for causing this problem
B They think you are blaming them for the issue and you should adjust your approach immediately and focus on how much they have done for the project
C Document the stakeholders response on the lessons learned register
D Change the topic of the conversation and try again tomorrow

People - Task 14 - Emotional Intelligence
Their body language changed during the conversation, this implies something stated began to bother the stakeholder. By focusing on the good things they have done it will make it easier to listen to how they can improve. Documenting it on the lessons learned register will not solve the issue currently at hand. Changing the topic will not solve the current issue and the issue still was not addressed. PMBOK Guide Sixth Edition (2017) PMI/PMI/10.2.2.3 Communications Skills/Non-Verbal/p. 384


Question: 118 (   Correct - You answered: A )
The procurement department has been negotiating the terms of a new contract with a customer who is unsure of what the final product should look like. They only know what the product should do once complete. The procurement department is having difficulty choosing between a fixed price contract or a cost reimbursable contract and they decide to call you, the project manager, in to assist with negotiations. As the project manager, how should you proceed?
A Work with the customer to determine the objectives and clarify requirements
B Elect to use a cost-reimbursable contract with a Point of Total Assumption Clause
C In a centralized purchasing organization the project manager is responsible for negotiating the contract
D Provide a bottom up estimate to determine a baseline cost and hold a bidder conference

People - Task 8 - Negotiate Agreements
Customer collaboration over contract negotiation is the preferred method. Since you have a procurement department, the project manager's role is to provide information about the aspects of the project itself, but they do not conduct contract negotiation. The Agile Practice Guide (2017) PMI/PMI/2.2 The Agile Manifesto and Mindset/Figure 2-2 The Four Values of the Agile Manifesto/p. 8


Question: 119 (   Correct - You answered: D )
Which of the following would not be an example of an empowered team?
A A team that makes its own decisions
B A team that is responsible for delivering the product
C A team that decides collectively how they will perform their work
D A team that follows instruction from their agile coach

People - Task 4 - Empower Team
Option D is correct. An empowered agile team would not follow instructions from an agile coach. A team that follows an agile coach's instruction would be utilizing more of a "command and control" structure, which is not an example of an empowered team. Answers A, B, and C are all examples of empowered agile teams. PMBOK Guide Sixth Edition (2017) PMI/PMI/9.0 Project Resource Management/Trends and Emerging Practices/p. 31


Question: 120 (   Correct - You answered: B )
Grace is a project manager for Cosmic Systems. When Grace is out of the office she doesn't trust her employees to get work done and when she is in the office, she is always looking over their shoulders. What type of manager is Grace?
A PsychotiC
B Theory X
C Theory Y
D Theory Z

People - Task 2 - Lead a Team
Theory X managers believe that workers are lazy and don't naturally want to work and thus must be watched constantly. Theory Y managers believe that workers naturally work hard and thus can be left alone to do their jobs. While choice A may be true, it's not a PMBOK Guide definition and we'll leave it to the medical professionals to make that diagnosis. Project Manager's Portable Handbook, 3rd Ed (2010)/5 Project Leadership /5.7 Motivating the Project Team /5.7.2 Maslow /Douglas McGregor


Question: 121 (   Incorrect - You answered: D )
Your company is new to agile concepts, and all people involved with projects have recently completed agile training. You have just been assigned as a project manager for your first agile project to develop a web front end for internal employees to register for health insurance and other benefits for the upcoming calendar year, with an expected delivery of 3 weeks. The project life cycle methodologies that are currently available are all based on a predictive/waterfall approach. What is the best course of action?
A Ask the project management office to develop a new agile methodology that will work for the new project
B Work with the project management office to develop a new or streamline an existing methodology that will work for the project
C Bring in outside agile consultants to help manage the project
D Create the initial work assignments for your resources since you are on a tight timeline, then work with the group to find the best way to get to agile as you move forward.

People - Task 7 - Remove Obstacles
This is the hallmark of servant leadership. The Agile Practice Guide (2017) PMI/PMI/4.2.1 Servant Leader Responsibilities/p. 34


Question: 122 (   Incorrect - You answered: C )
After six iterations, significant variations have occurred to the project scope and schedule. These are due to the customer's technology regulations and security policies, which are regularly reviewed. The project manager wants to suggest a new approach to the next iteration to avoid possible delays. What should the project manager do first?
A Rank the importance of each improvement item, then implement actions identified during the last retrospective.
B Engage in a cost-benefit analysis that can help predict the profits that could be realized through the use of new technology for the next phase.
C Research new technology trends and management tools that have been successful on similar projects.
D Use a backlog refinement meeting and include the customer's change requests in the discussion.

Process - Task 16 - Knowledge Transfer
The retrospective is used to review lessons learned and suggest corrective actions for the next iterations. Essential Scrum - A Practical Guide to the Most Popular Agile Process (2012), Chapter 22. Sprint Retrospective /Overview. The Agile Practice Guide (2017) PMI/PMI/5.2.1. Retrospectives/pp. 50-51


Question: 123 (   Incorrect - You answered: B )
Which of the following is not an example of collaboration within an agile team?
A Storming
B Mobbing
C Swarming
D Pairing

People - Task 1 - Manage Conflict
Storming is a stage in the Tuckman model. The others are all part of a collaborative, agile team. The Agile Practice Guide (2017) PMI/PMI/4.3.1 Agile Teams/p. 39


Question: 124 (   Correct - You answered: D )
Approaches to change will vary with the project lifecycle you are using. In a predictive project the project manager's attention is BEST spent doing which of the following?
A Informing the sponsor and stakeholders of changes
B Tracking and recording changes
C Building relationships with the change control board members
D Preventing unnecessary changes

Process - Task 10 - Manage Changes
As a project manager you should try to be proactive and prevent changes as much as possible, thus choice D is the correct answer. PMBOK Guide Sixth Edition (2017) PMI/PMI/8.0 Project Quality Management/Key Concepts for Project Quality Management/p. 274; Managing Change in Organizations (2013) PMI/PMI/5.3.2.1 Define the Change Approach/pp. 76-79


Question: 125 (   Incorrect - You answered: C )
You are the project manager at a healthcare services company. Two of your team members are having a disagreement that they cannot resolve, and it is beginning to affect the entire project team's performance. Which technique should you use if your main goal is to develop a solution that all agree to?
A Collaborating
B Avoiding
C Smoothing
D Forcing

People - Task 9 - Collaborate with Stakeholders
Collaboration involves hearing different opinions and thoughtfully working through the problems to find solutions that are agreeable to all. Avoiding just puts the problem off until later. Smoothing is where you make everyone feel good, but dodge the real issue. PMBOK Guide Sixth Edition (2017) PMI/PMI/9.5.2.1 Interpersonal and Team Skills/Conflict Management/pp. 348-349


Question: 126 (   Incorrect - You answered: B )
Which earned value measurements can easily be translated to agile?
A Cost performance index (CPI)
B Schedule performance index (SPI)
C SPI and CPI
D Net present value

Process - Task 5 - Manage Budget and Resources
Option C is correct. Schedule performance index (SPI) is the project's schedule efficiency and Cost performance index (CPI) is the project's cost or spending efficiency rating can both be easily adapted into agile. The Agile Practice Guide (2017) PMI/PMI/5.4.1 Agile Teams Measure Results/p. 69


Question: 127 (   Incorrect - You answered: A )
A customer is contemplating adding new features to the project deliverable. Before a project team member starts working on these new features, what is a mandatory step?
A Gain approval from the project manager.
B Ensure the change control board (CCB) approves.
C Gain approval from the project sponsor.
D Ensure key subject matter experts (SMEs) approve.

Process - Task 10 - Manage Changes
The change control board (CCB) is a formally chartered group responsible for reviewing, evaluating, approving, deferring, or rejecting changes to the project and for recording and communicating such decisions. PMBOK Guide Sixth Edition (2017) PMI/PMI/4.3.1.3 Approved Change Requests/p. 93


Question: 128 (   Incorrect - You answered: A )
When working in a highly regulated industry, what can be done to ensure any changes in regulatory compliance are met during an agile project?
A Evaluate regulatory compliance during the daily scrum
B Continuously refine the product backlog
C Use affinity estimating
D Refactoring

Business Environment - Task 1 - Manage Compliance
Option B is correct. Requirements for new and/or changing regulatory compliance will be incorporated into the product backlog as they arise if the product owner refines the backlog regularly. The Agile Practice Guide (2017) PMI/PMI/5.2.3 Backlog Refinement/p. 52


Question: 129 (   Correct - You answered: D )
You have just finished a release cycle on your agile project and things are going GREAT! The new features have been an instant success and the marketplace is waiting with high anticipation to see what you will bring them next. Which of the following is not true regarding the sprint planning meeting?
A The sprint goal, which includes features and user stories in the sprint backlog, is createD B Backlog items are prioritized, usually by the highest value
C It is typically attended by the product owner and agile team
D All tasks from decomposed user stories are createD Process - Task 9 - Integrate Planning

Option D is correct. Usually, only the highest priority stories are decomposed into tasks during the sprint planning meeting. These will be the initial tasks performed during the upcoming sprint. The remaining stories will be decomposed later during the sprint. Answers A, B, and C are all true regarding the sprint planning meeting. The Agile Practice Guide (2017) PMI/PMI/5.4.1 Agile Teams Measure Results/pp. 61-64


Question: 130 (   Correct - You answered: B )
A project manager realizes that sponsor expectations are not being met, specifically regarding project deliverables. To address this issue, which action should the project manager take?
A Create a risk register.
B Develop a stakeholder engagement plan.
C Develop a communications management plan.
D Create a work breakdown structure (WBS).

Process - Task 4 - Engage Stakeholders
The stakeholder engagement plan is a component of the project management plan that identifies the strategies and actions required to promote the productive involvement of stakeholders in decision making and execution. PMBOK Guide Sixth Edition (2017) PMI/PMI/13.2.3.1 Stakeholder Engagement Plan/p. 522


Question: 131 (   Correct - You answered: D )
Which of the following is not true regarding the team charter?
A It sets the ground rules for team behavior
B It establishes values such as sustainable pace and core hours
C It defines working agreements including the definition of 'ready' and 'done'
D It is not considered a social contract

People - Task 12 - Ground Rules
Option D is correct. Answers A, B, and C are true regarding the team charter. However, the team charter is considered a social contract between the project team members. The Agile Practice Guide (2017) PMI/PMI/5.1 Charter the Project and the Team/p. 50.


Question: 132 (   Incorrect - You answered: B )
Your company has won a contract to oversee the expansion of a major highway in your area. The project had been discussed for several years, and due to constant changes in the political climate, the controversial project was hard to get off the ground. The project has drawn criticism from nearby residential landowners, environmental groups, and taxpayers who deem it too expensive. Moreover, some environmental studies suggest that the subsurface in some areas may be inadequate to sustain the road, which may result in expensive detours being built around those spots. You are working on your risk management plan. What is the best way to proceed?
A Set aside reserves to cover the costs of these risks and others that have been identifieD B Conduct a feasibility study to determine whether the project should go forward under these circumstances
C Document each category of risk in the Risk Management Plan to help ensure all risks are properly identifieD D Ask the sponsor to assign an independent project team to assess and handle project risk
Process - Task 3 - Evaluate Scope Changes
The Risk Management Plan should contain risk categories, which will help you systematically identify risks as you move through risk planning. A risk breakdown structure may be used to show risk categories, and this would be part of the Risk Management Plan. Remember, since you are working on the Risk Management Plan, you have not yet documented specific risks, as suggested in choice A. PMBOK Guide Sixth Edition (2017) PMI/PMI/11.1.3.1 Risk Management Plan/pp. 405-408


Question: 133 (   Correct - You answered: A )
You have two key stakeholders on your project that are always arguing. If one makes a suggestion, the other disagrees even if it's a good idea. Which technique might help them be more receptive to the other person's ideas when the ideas are being reviewed in a group discussion?
A Facilitation
B Focus groups
C Brainstorming
D Team building exercises

People - Task 9 - Collaborate with Stakeholders
The best way to handle this situation would be to utilize Interpersonal and Team Skills, specifically facilitation. PMBOK Guide Sixth Edition (2017) PMI/PMI/4.1.2.3 Interpersonal and Team Skills/Facilitation/p. 8


Question: 134 (   Incorrect - You answered: A )
Your team is on sprint four (4) of an estimated ten (10) sprints for the creation of a sports game for a major corporation. A stakeholder has been holding on to information that is required to complete each sprint and it is starting to delay the progress of work and completion of sprints. As the product owner, how should you proceed?
A Refer to the Stakeholder Engagement Plan and Communication Management Plan then engage the person appropriately
B Report the issue to the team facilitator and have them speak with the stakeholder
C Have the sponsor engage the stakeholder
D Document this in the risk register and brainstorm potential responses

People - Task 7 - Remove Obstacles
The product owner is responsible for guiding the direction of the product and managing the backlog. The team facilitator is responsible for removing impediments for team members. The team facilitator is also known as scrum master, project team lead, team coach, and project manager. The Agile Practice Guide (2017) PMI/PMI/Table 4-2. Agile Team Roles/p. 41


Question: 135 (   Incorrect - You answered: C )
In a strong matrix organization the role of the project manager is best described as?
A Expediter
B Full-time
C Coordinator
D Part-time

People - Task 4 - Empower Team
In a balanced matrix, strong matrix, and project-oriented organizational structure, the role of the project manager is full time. According to the PMBOK Guide, in a functional organization, the role of the project manager is part-time and is more like a project coordinator or project expediter. PMBOK Guide Sixth Edition (2017) PMI/PMI/2.4.4.2 Factors in Organizational Structure Selection/Table 2-1. Influences of Organizational Structures on Projects/p. 47


Question: 136 (   Correct - You answered: A )
A project manager overhears a conversation in a cafeteria. The speaker says that a possible union action will occur within the next two weeks. The project manager knows that any union action will affect the project team and, at this stage of the project, any project delays will cause substantial harm to both budget and schedule. Earlier, the probability of a union action was considered minimal. Thus, it was unanticipated. What should the project manager do?
A Update the risk register with the new risk level, then identify and inform relevant stakeholders to get their insight.
B Ask all stakeholders for additional information regarding the likelihood of the union action, then act on what is heard only after all responses have been gathered.
C Set up an information session for the project team, letting them know of possible disciplinary sanctions for those who participate in the union action.
D Meet with union members and the union leader to resolve this conflict.

Process - Task 3 - Manage Risks
The project manager needs to proactively approach this. By updating the risk register and by communicating this development to the appropriate stakeholders, they will be achieving this. PMBOK Guide Sixth Edition (2017) PMI/PMI/11.2.3.1 Risk Register/p. 417


Question: 137 (   Correct - You answered: A )
In agile, what is the primary value of the agile coach?
A Work with the agile team to improve performance
B Provide the approach on how to structure the project
C Perform additional work unable to be performed by agile team members
D Make team decisions based on their input

People - Task 3 - Support Team Performance
Option A is correct. The value of project managers is not their position, but their ability to make everyone else better. The Agile Practice Guide (2017) PMI/PMI/4.2.2 Role of the Project manager in an Agile Environment/p. 37


Question: 138 (   Incorrect - You answered: C )
A medium-sized company is expanding into a new market. However, the company does not have previous experience in that market. A project manager needs to collect requirements. Which tool or technique should the project manager use?
A Prototypes
B Expert judgment
C Product analysis
D Create requirements traceability matrix

Process - Task 8 - Manage Scope
Prototyping is a method of obtaining early feedback on requirements by providing a model of the expected product before actually building it. PMBOK Guide Sixth Edition (2017) PMI/PMI/5.2.2.8 Prototypes/p. 147


Question: 139 (   Correct - You answered: B )
A customer indicates that they would like to add functionality. Although this request is made during the execution stage of this waterfall project, the project manager finds that the cost for the addition would be small. The additional functionality, if successful, would increase the opportunity for profit. What should the project manager do next?
A Agree that the functionality would offer a great opportunity, but the proposed addition is out of scope.
B Schedule a meeting with the company's management team, and present the customer's request for additional functionality as a good opportunity.
C Move forward, using the project's management reserve to add the requested functionality.
D Add it to the product backlog and prioritize it against the other components of the project.

Process - Task 1 - Deliver Business Value
By building a small increment and then testing and reviewing it, the team can add value in terms of new functionalities or additional awarded projects. An important factor for a successful implementation and value capture is the response time of the team. PMBOK Guide Sixth Edition (2017) PMI/PMI/1.2.4.1 Project and Development Life Cycles/p. 19


Question: 140 (   Correct - You answered: A )
A project manager joins a project that has the following features: -Globally distributed team -Budget that is fixed -Clearly defined scope -Very tight deadlines During planning, what should the project manager do to avoid any scope creep and keep the team focused on delivering a product that meets requirements?
A Put any changes to scope through the formal approval process.
B Hold daily stand-ups with all development teams.
C Escalate all changes to scope to upper management.
D Disallow stakeholders from directly interacting with the development team leads.

Process - Task 8 - Manage Scope
Scope creep can be avoided by adherence to the agreed upon change management process. Project Manager's Portable Handbook, 3rd Ed (2010), 6 Project / 6.4.2 Getting StarteD


Question: 141 (   Correct - You answered: B )
You are submitting a status report to your external customer. Which communication approach should you use?
A Mass Communication
B Interpersonal communication
C Networks and social computing communication
D Scrum status reporting systems (SSRS)

Process - Task 2 - Manage Communications
Interpersonal communication is the best approach offered as answers to this


question. Options A and C are approaches but would not always be appropriate. Option D is a made up term. PMBOK Guide Sixth Edition (2017) PMI/PMI/10.1.2.5 Communication Methods/p. 374


Question: 142 (   Correct - You answered: D )
You know a small portion of your project work will have to be performed by contract workers from an external organization, however, you cannot currently create a precise statement of work for this procurement. Which type of contract would be best suited for this situation?
A Cost Plus Incentive Fee (CPIF)
B Fixed Price (FP)
C Cost Plus Percentage of Costs (CPPC)
D Time and Materials (T&M)

Process - Task 1 - Deliver Business Value
Time and materials (T&M) contracts are best used in cases where precise statements of work cannot be readily prescribed. They are most commonly used for staff augmentation, as indicated in the facts of this


question. You should consider using a not-to-exceed clause to help prevent runaway costs when using this contract type. PMBOK Guide Sixth Edition (2017) PMI/PMI/12.1.1.6 Organizational Process Assets/Contract Types/Time and Materials/p. 472


Question: 143 (   Incorrect - You answered: B )
A project has the following characteristics: -A functional manager is also a project stakeholder. -The functional manager has time constraints and delegates project responsibilities to someone else on the functional team. -The new stakeholder is not attending meetings. The project manager needs to engage this new stakeholder. What should the project manager do?
A Examine the project charter with the new stakeholder and assess their level of engagement.
B Present the project schedule and the specific, assigned tasks to the new stakeholder.
C Request the functional manager briefs this new stakeholder and ask that they send them to all relevant meetings.
D Ask the new stakeholder to pair with a more experienced stakeholder to learn responsibilities.

Process - Task 4 - Engage Stakeholders
The first version of the stakeholder engagement plan is developed after the initial stakeholder community has been identified by the Identify Stakeholder process. The stakeholder engagement plan is updated regularly to reflect changes to the stakeholder community. PMBOK Guide Sixth Edition (2017) PMI/PMI/13.2.3.1 Stakeholder Engagement Plan/p. 522


Question: 144 (   Incorrect - You answered: B )
Which of the following is an example of individuals and interactions over processes and tools?
A Utilizing a burndown chart
B An agile team helping the product owner modify functionality of features currently in the product backlog
C An agile coach working with stakeholders to remove agile team impediments
D Facilitating an estimating meeting

People - Task 7 - Remove Obstacles
Option C is correct. Removing the impediments is based on human interactions and relationships. This is an example of an agile primary value of individuals and interactions over processes and tools. The Agile Practice Guide (2017) PMI/PMI/2.2 The Agile Manifesto and Mindset/Figure 2-1. The Four Values of the Agile Manifesto/p. 8


Question: 145 (   Incorrect - You answered: D )
While having lunch with a few friends, some of which are stakeholders in your project when the topic of the agile methodology comes up. One of them states they do not understand this methodology and they prefer the traditional way of doing things and others agree with this sentiment. Your project is using an incremental approach and this will have no impact on it. What would be your best response?
A Document this on the issue log for future projects
B Discuss with them how agile is best used for projects with a high-uncertainty of work and frequent change
C Tell them it is only used for software development projects and will never impact us
D Laugh it off so you don't offend them

People - Task 13 - Mentor Stakeholders
Take advantage of this opportunity to mentor them on the benefits of agile and the types of projects that would benefit the most from it. An issue log is a document for ongoing projects. The agile approach is not limited to software development, but can be used by teachers, doctors, lawyers, and problem solving engineers. The Agile Practice Guide (2017) PMI/PMI/1.0 Introduction/Agile Based Learning/p. 2


Question: 146 (   Correct - You answered: B )
Which of the following best describes the primary purpose of the project charter?
A It defines the project scope
B It authorizes work to begin on the project
C It completely describes the work to be done on the project
D It describes the business case and reason for doing the project

Process - Task 9 - Integrate Planning
The main purpose of the project charter is to grant formal authority for work to begin on a project. The charter may include some aspects of the other answer choices, but choice B is the best answer. PMBOK Guide Sixth Edition (2017) PMI/PMI/4.1.3.1 Project Charter/p. 81


Question: 147 (   Correct - You answered: A )
While reviewing the issues log, the project manager notices that tasks assigned to two team members are quite a bit behind schedule. What should be done?
A Work with the relevant team members to review the delayed tasks and decide on strategies for resolution.
B Document the issue, escalate to the project sponsor, and ask how they would like it resolved.
C Tell the team members who are behind schedule that they should explain why tasks were delayed and how they will get back on schedule.
D Notify the responsible team members of the need to complete the overdue tasks quickly in order to avoid introducing extra project risks.

Process - Task 2 - Manage Communications
The project manager needs to be proactive and review the activities with the team and to identify resolution strategies. PMBOK Guide Sixth Edition (2017) PMI/PMI/3.4.4.2 Qualities and Skills of a Leader/p. 61


Question: 148 (   Correct - You answered: A )
You are managing a project to build a bridge across the bay. The previous project had cost overruns because the project team underestimated the winds and harsh weather conditions on the bay. From which of the following should you derive this historical information?
A Organizational process assets (OPA)
B The National Weather Service historical database
C Project management software
D Enterprise environmental factors (EEF)

Process - Task 5 - Manage Budget and Resources
The lessons learned documentation from the prior project is part of the organizational process assets (OPA). The national weather service does have a historical database, but the


question is asking about previous projects. Project management software is a tool that can be part of the project management information system (PMIS). Enterprise environmental factors (EEF) are the factors surrounding your workplace and are usually intangible, which the windy conditions are an example. However, the information documenting this is part of your OPA. PMBOK Guide Sixth Edition (2017) PMI/PMI/2.3 Organizational Process Assets/pp. 39-41


Question: 149 (   Correct - You answered: B )
You are managing a project which is wrapping up. One of your team members, Luke, comes to you to voice some frustrations about his role in the project. He feels that his job on the project was never clearly established, and that he was never provided with any concrete goals. Even though the team had been working together for a few months he never felt trusted to try his strengths and truly excel during the project. If this is true, you may have done a poor job with which of the following?
A Team Performance Assessments
B Roles and Responsibilities
C Team-Building Activities
D Communication Methods

People - Task 6 - Build a Team
Roles and responsibilities are a component of the resource management plan. The


question suggests poor planning was done for project resources, this can lead to confusion is roles and doubts in expectations. PMBOK Guide Sixth Edition (2017) PMI/PMI/9.1.3.1 Resource Management Plan/Roles and Responsibilities/pp. 318-319


Question: 150 (   Incorrect - You answered: B )
What is the purpose of a RACI matrix?
A Displays the relationship between work packages and team members
B Defines communication channels
C Authorizes work to begin
D Speeds up the project schedule

People - Task 6 - Build a Team
RACI stands for Responsible, Accountable, Consult, and Inform. It is used to identify roles, responsibilities and authority on a responsibility assignment matrix (RAM). The purpose of a RACI matrix is to show the relationship between work packages (or activities) and team members. PMBOK Guide Sixth Edition (2017) PMI/PMI/9.1.2.2 Data Representation/Responsibility Assignment Matrix/p. 317


Question: 151 (   Incorrect - You answered: D )
Which of the following eXtreme programming (XP) practices best assists with changes affecting project scope?
A On-site customer
B Planning games
C Simple design
D Coding standards

Business Environment - Task 3 - Evaluate Scope Changes
Option A is correct. The on-site customer practice includes embedding a customer (or customer representative) into the team itself. Therefore, if external circumstances, (market conditions, competition, financial considerations, etc...) present themselves, the agile team can act quickly and decisively. The Agile Practice Guide (2017) PMI/PMI/A3.3 Extreme Programming/Table A3-2. The Practices of eXtreme Programming/Organizational/p. 102


Question: 152 (   Incorrect - You answered: D )
Which of the following is considered a tool that can be utilized to create a virtual team workspace?
A Planning poker
B Remote pairing
C Affinity estimating
D Colocation

People - Task 11 - Virtual Teams
Option B is correct. Remote pairing utilizes virtual conferencing tools to share screens, including voice and video links. While not as effective as a face-to-face conversation, remote pairing can vastly improve communications and team cohesion for virtual teams. The Agile Practice Guide (2017) PMI/PMI/4.3.6 Team Workspace/p. 46


Question: 153 (   Incorrect - You answered: C )
Which of the following would not typically be included in a team charter for an agile project? 1 - Group norms for meeting times, durations and formats 2 - Core and flexible work hours 3 - Project vision 4 - Working agreements 5 - Corporate mission 6 - Team member behavior expectations
A 1, 2, and 4
B 2 and 4
C 3, 5, and 6
D 3 and 5

People - Task 12 - Ground Rules
The project vision is typically included in the project charter - not the social contract for the agile team (team charter). The Agile Practice Guide (2017) PMI/PMI/5.1 Charter the Project and the Team/pp. 49-5


Question: 154 (   Correct - You answered: B )
You are the project manager of a project whose stakeholders are risk averse and cost sensitive. During the decomposition of the work breakdown structure (WBS) into activities, you identify a work package that would benefit from using a subcontractor to perform it. Which of the following statements describes the most likely reason for this? 1 - Your team has the experience to do the specific work 2 - Your team is not very experienced with this specific type of work 3 - it would be less expensive to use a subcontractor 4 - it would be more expensive to use a subcontractor 5 - You identify the work package as having a high risk of failure therefore using a subcontractor would transfer the risk. 6 - You identify the work package as having a high risk of failure therefore using a subcontractor would share the risk.
A 1, 4, and 6
B 2, 3, and 5
C 2, 4, and 6
D 1, 3, and 5

People - Task 5 - Ensure Team is TraineD Because the stakeholders are both risk adverse and cost sensitive, B would be the best choice since it reduces both risk and cost. Remember you must choose the best answer, and that will always be the one that most closely aligns with all the facts provided. PMBOK Guide Sixth Edition (2017) PMI/PMI/Part 2. The Standard for Project Management/1.7 Role of the Project Manager/p. 552


Question: 155 (   Correct - You answered: D )
You are managing a project that will produce the next new supercomputer. As each new unit is produced your team is taking measurements and recording them in a control chart. Which of the following results should you be least concerned with?
A A data point that is just above the upper control limit
B Seven consecutive data points above the mean, but within the control limits
C A data point that is just below the lower control limit
D Several data points falling well above and below the mean, but within the control limits

Process - Task 7 - Manage Quality
Choice D is describing a random pattern of measurements that fall on either side of the mean. This is not a cause for concern to the project manager. Choice B, where 7 points fall consecutively on one side of the mean, should be of concern since this means your process is out of control. Choices A and C are both problems as well, since both represent data points that fall outside the control limits (meaning the process is out of control). Project Management: A Systems Approach to Planning, Scheduling, and Controlling (2009)/Kerzner/Wiley/20 Quality Management/Control Chart Interpretation/p. 907


Question: 156 (   Correct - You answered: B )
You were recently promoted to a project manager position in your company. Your team members follow your lead simply because you are the project manager. What kind of power is this?
A Expert
B Positional or Legitimate
C Referent
D Reward-orienteD People - Task 3 - Support Team Performance

This is positional power, which is the power derived from your title or position in the company. PMBOK Guide Sixth Edition (2017) PMI/PMI/3.4.4.3 Politics, Power, and Getting Things Done/pp. 62-63


Question: 157 (   Correct - You answered: C )
Two of your team members are arguing over a technical issue on your project. You suggest that they put their differences aside and offer to take them both to lunch. Which conflict resolution technique did you use?
A Withdrawal
B Compromise
C Smoothing
D Collaborating

People - Task 1 - Manage Conflict
This is an example of smoothing, which occurs when you try to gloss over the issue or change the subject. As a good project manager this is not your best option, because the problem still exists and will likely come up again. The better option would have been to collaborate, which would involve sitting down, discussing options, and trying to solve the problem. Withdrawal is where one party shuts down or walks away from the conversation. Compromise is where both parties give something up and meet in the middle. PMBOK Guide Sixth Edition (2017) PMI/PMI/9.5.2.1 Interpersonal and Team Skills/Conflict Management/pp. 348-349


Question: 158 (   Incorrect - You answered: D )
A project manager realizes that stakeholder interests will conflict on a project and decides to utilize a stakeholder engagement assessment matrix. The matrix pinpoints an influential stakeholder who is resistant to the project. The project manager needs to align this stakeholder's expectations. What should the project manager do to accomplish this goal? 1 - Produce a stakeholder engagement plan. 2 - Convey the stakeholder engagement plan. 3 - Gain consensus on project objectives by meeting with all stakeholders. 4 - Monitor stakeholder engagement and make neccesary updates to the plan as needed 5 -Ensure that the stakeholder register is complete and updated. 6 - Identify the key stakeholders and follow their leaD A 1, 2, and 4
B 2, 5, and 6
C 1, 3, and 6
D 2, 4, and 5

Process - Task 4 - Engage Stakeholders
Plan stakeholder engagement is the process of developing approaches to involve project stakeholders based on their needs, expectations, interests, and potential impact on the project. The key benefit is that it provides an actionable plan to interact effectively with stakeholders. PMBOK Guide Sixth Edition (2017) PMI/PMI/13.2 Plan Stakeholder Engagement/p. 516


Question: 159 (   Correct - You answered: A )
The project is overseen by a senior project manager. When a new project manager is added to the project, the sponsor asks the new project manager to develop the quality management plan. How should the new project manager proceed?
A Obtain established quality processes and plans from the senior project manager, then ask them for guidance in selecting the appropriate standards.
B Schedule a meeting with the customer to collect requirements and obtain benchmarking samples.
C Schedule a meeting with the sponsor to obtain benchmarking samples and cost-benefit analyses.
D Postpone the development of the quality management plan by submitting a change request. Only proceed when quality metrics and quality checklists have been created.

Process - Task 7 - Manage Quality
The new project manager needs to consult with the senior project manager to find out what practices and processes are already in place. PMBOK Guide Sixth Edition (2017) PMI/PMI/8.1 Plan Quality Management/p. 277


Question: 160 (   Incorrect - You answered: B )
What can be used to improve the accuracy and reliability of release planning?
A Consensus building
B Affinity estimating
C Sprint planning meeting
D Velocity

Process - Task 17 - Manage Closure
Option D is correct. By understanding a teams current velocity (the number of story points a team can finish per sprint based on past performance) and knowing the remaining story points required for the release, a release date can be forecasted more accurately. The Agile Practice Guide (2017) PMI/PMI/5.4.1 Agile Teams Measure Results/pp. 61-64


Question: 161 (   Correct - You answered: A )
Your company recently partnered with an overseas organization that specializes in wireless nanobots that are used to detect tumors during surgery. Report deadlines are constantly missed due to the difference in time zones. They claim to lose a day of work weekly due to the reporting dates documented in the communication management plan. As a project manager, what is the best solution for this?
A Update the communications management plan to reflect a time zone that favors both organizations
B Terminate the contract for non-conformance and select the next bidder on your procurement list
C Inform them of the established process in the communication management plan and counsel them appropriately
D Document it in the issue log and allow them time to adjust the schedule

People - Task 11 - Virtual Teams
Time zones are a consistent problem with virtual teams. Establishing a time zone that works in favor of both teams is the best approach. Terminating the agreement will cause the company to lose all of the benefits it gained. They already know what is contained in the plan and that is the cause of the issue. Documenting it in the issue log is too late and will not fix the issue. PMBOK Guide Sixth Edition (2017) PMI/PMI/9.0 Project resource Management/Trends and Emerging Practices in Project Resource Management/Virtual Teams/Distributed Teams/p. 311


Question: 162 (   Incorrect - You answered: C )
Which of the following is not a servant leadership characteristic? 1 - Listening carefully 2 - Coaching and mentoring 3 - Promoting self-awareness 4 - Allowing team members to solve their own problems without intervention 5 - Keeping tally of each team members errors to weed out the lowest performers
A 1 and 4
B 2 and 3
C 3 and 5
D 4 and 5

People - Task 2 - Lead a Team
Option D is correct. Servant leaders focus on listening carefully, coaching and mentoring, and promoting self-awareness. Expecting teams to solve disputes without intervention is a characteristic associated with the Laissez-Faire leadership style. The Agile Practice Guide (2017) PMI/PMI/4.2.1 Servant Leaders Responsibilities/p. 34


Question: 163 (   Correct - You answered: B )
You are the project manager of a large global project that has team members spread out across several countries in multiple time zones. Several of the team members in India have been complaining about the limited health benefits provided by your company and that they are not able to pay for the care they need, given their lower salaries as compared to project team members in the United States. Lately, they have been somewhat slow to respond to your e-mail requests for status updates and have even missed a few meetings. Which of the following is the most likely explanation for this?
A McGregor's Theory-X
B Herzberg's Theory of Motivation
C McGregor's Theory-Y
D McClelland's Theory of Needs

People - Task 11 - Virtual Teams
Herzberg theorized pay and benefits do not lead to positive satisfaction for the long-term. But if these factors are absent or non-existent at the workplace, then they lead to dissatisfaction. McGregor's Theory-X and Theory-Y theorize that employees inherently dislike work and are self-motivated, respectively. McClelland's Theory of Needs says people are motivated by either 1) achievement, 2) affiliation, or 3) power. Project Management: A Systems Approach to Planning, Scheduling, and Controlling (2009)/Kerzner/Wiley/5 Management Functions/5.2 Directing/p. 196


Question: 164 (   Correct - You answered: C )
A company is planning to utilize a new product that leverages innovative technologies and processes. The project manager has verified that the component work packages have been defined, and constraints for each component have been identified. Which estimating technique should the project manager use to obtain a precise cost estimate of the project?
A Analogous
B Three-point
C Bottom-up
D ParametriC Process - Task 6 - Manage Schedule

Bottom-up estimating is a method of estimating project duration or cost by aggregating the estimates of the lower level components of the work breakdown structure (WBS). PMBOK Guide Sixth Edition (2017) PMI/PMI/6.4.2.5 Bottom-up Estimating/p. 202


Question: 165 (   Incorrect - You answered: D )
A new product is released. When a customer identifies performance issues with this product, the project manager realizes that cost of quality (COQ) should have been used to estimate this cost. Which category of COQ should the project manager have used?
A Prevention costs
B External failure costs
C Appraisal costs
D Cost-benefit analysis

Process - Task 7 - Manage Quality
External failure costs are those failures found by the customer. PMBOK Guide Sixth Edition (2017) PMI/PMI/8.1.2.3 Data Analysis/Cost of Quality/p. 282


Question: 166 (   Correct - You answered: B )
Which of the following is a key servant leadership characteristic that would help an agile coach lead a team?
A Determining the project methodologies the agile team will follow
B Removing impediments for the team
C Assigning project work to the most qualified individuals on the team
D Implementing new project management tools to streamline processes

People - Task 2 - Lead a Team
Option B is correct. Servant leadership is an essential part of agile. As an agile coach, removing impediments faced by your team members is a crucial part of your job. Removing impediments is a key characteristic of servant leadership. The Agile Practice Guide (2017) PMI/PMI/4.2.1 Servant Leader Responsibilities/pp. 34-37


Question: 167 (   Incorrect - You answered: B )
Which of the following is not a contracting technique an agile coach can utilize to help create a win-win, collaborative relationship with a vendor?
A Multi-tiered structure
B Emphasize value deliver
C Dynamic cancelation option
D Not-to-exceed time and materials

People - Task 8 - Negotiate Agreements
Option C is correct. Answers A, B, and D are all valid contracting techniques an agile coach would use while negotiating with a vendor. Dynamic cancelation option is not a valid contracting technique. The Agile Practice Guide (2017) PMI/PMI/6.3 Procurement and Contract/pp. 77-78


Question: 168 (   Incorrect - You answered: C )
A software vendor is behind on a key project deliverable. There is a 21% buffer in the budget for cost overruns. The project manager needs to mitigate the issue. Which action should the project manager take next?
A Evaluate alternative software vendors that can help project deliverables despite resource constraints.
B Remove the current vendor and have the new vendor send a contract.
C Ask the vendor to meet to discuss options for helping them get caught up.
D Accept the cost overrun and update the project schedule.

Process - Task 11 - Manage Procurement
The first step is analysis and evaluation of alternate options. After that, specific and appropriate action can be taken. PMBOK Guide Sixth Edition (2017) PMI/PMI/12.3 Control Procurements/p. 492


Question: 169 (   Incorrect - You answered: D )
A planned task for a project does not get completed due to an issue that appeared three days ago but did not get resolved. The project manager wants to prevent this type of situation in the future. What should the project manager do?
A During the retrospective, examine the issue.
B In the demo, address the issue.
C During the next iteration planning meeting, discuss the issue.
D In the next daily standup meeting, review the issue.

Process - Task 6 - Manage Schedule
The retrospective allows issues with the execution approach to be identified and discussed in a timely fashion along with ideas for improvements. Retrospectives are a primary tool to manage project knowledge and develop the team through discussions of what is working well and team-based problem solving. PMBOK Guide Sixth Edition (2017) PMI/PMI/6.6 Control Schedule/p. 224; The Agile Practice Guide (2017) PMI/PMI/5.2.1 Retrospectives/pp. 50-51


Question: 170 (   Correct - You answered: B )
Your project has not currently completed initiating but has a strong likelihood of being selected for this fiscal year. Which of the following is not something you should do at this point in time?
A Document the reason for doing the project
B Define how and when the work will be executed to accomplish the project objectives
C Identify project success criteriA D Document high-level risks
Process - Task 9 - Integrate Planning
All choices are done during the Initiating Process Group when developing the project charter, except for choice B. You would not do choice B until the Planning Process Group when you are developing the project management plan. PMBOK Guide Sixth Edition (2017) PMI/PMI/4.1.3.1 Project Charter/p. 81


Question: 171 (   Incorrect - You answered: D )
Jeff is a senior engineer on your project. During a progress review meeting you come across a potentially disastrous risk to your project. Jeff tells the team that he has a fix to avoid the risk and ensure everything goes smoothly. Everyone trusts Jeff's advice, because he has a lot of experience handling these types of technical risks. What kind of power does Jeff have?
A Formal
B Expert
C Legitimate
D Referent

People - Task 4 - Empower Team
There are 14 types or sources of power. Some of these include formal/legitimate, expert, reward, referent, and punishment/penalty. Jeff derives his power from his vast amount of experience, thus he is using Expert power. Positional (aka Formal /Legitimate) power is derived from your position or title. Referent power is derived from your charisma or how well others like you. PMBOK Guide Sixth Edition (2017) PMI/PMI/3.4.4.3 Politics, Power, and Getting Things Done/pp. 62-63


Question: 172 (   Incorrect - You answered: D )
A project manager has been asked to conduct a risk analysis that is based on a high-level scope. As part of the analysis, the project manager must use expert judgment to prepare a document. Which document-based action is being performed?
A Creating the project charter
B Preparing the scope statement document
C Creating a project management plan
D Documenting the risk management plan

Process - Task 1 - Deliver Business Value
Expert judgment is one of the tools and techniques for developing the project charter. PMBOK Guide Sixth Edition (2017) PMI/PMI/4.2.1 Develop Project Charter/p. 79


Question: 173 (   Incorrect - You answered: A )
As the new project manager for the Better Beach Bicycle Company, you and the project team are reviewing the work breakdown structure (WBS) which was created by the previous project team. After the project was postponed indefinitely, the previous project manager and project team were released. You notice that the lowest level nodes of the work breakdown structure (WBS) do not include a list of activities. Which of the following are true? 1 - You realize that the previous project team did not finish the work breakdown structure (WBS) since it should have included the required activities. 2 - This is OK since the lowest level of the work breakdown structure (WBS) should be the work package level. 3 - You realize that the previous project team may have captured the required activities in another document and you should keep reviewing their work. 4 - You realize that the previous project team did not finish the work breakdown structure (WBS) since it should have included the required resources. 5 - This is OK since the previous team was using rolling-wave planning, therefore the lowest level of the work breakdown structure (WBS) is the work package level.
A 1 and 3
B 2 and 3
C 2 and 4
D 4 and 5

Process - Task 8 - Manage Scope
A work breakdown structure (WBS) is a hierarchical decomposition down to the work package level. A work breakdown structure (WBS) never includes resources or activities lists. Rolling-wave planning can be done after completing the work breakdown structure (WBS) but is not necessarily used to create one. There is also no indication in the


question that the previous team used rolling-wave planning. PMBOK Guide Sixth Edition (2017) PMI/PMI/5.4 Create WBS/p. 157


Question: 174 (   Incorrect - You answered: B )
You are running an agile project and many of the people on the team are relatively new to agile concepts. You are concerned about how well the team will adapt and perform over the long run, and want to help the team improve as it delivers each iteration. What is the best practice for doing this?
A Facilitate daily stand-up meetings
B Coach and mentor each team member throughout the project
C Have an independent party conduct an audit of the agile process and its effectiveness
D Conduct retrospectives at the end of each iteration

People - Task 3 - Support Team Performance
The retrospective is the most important practice for the team to learn about, improve, and adapt to the process. You might still do the other things, but the retrospective is the most important one for long term gains. The Agile Practice Guide (2017) PMI/PMI/5.2.1 Retrospectives/p. 5


Question: 175 (   Incorrect - You answered: B )
A customer is not satisfied with the delivered product, saying that it was not what they expected. The project manager is surprised, because the agile development team delivered the product several iterations early. What is one way that the project manager could have avoided this result?
A Required team sign off for each of the constant changes to the requirements
B Set aside more resources for product testing after changes are made
C Made sure that the customer was aware of the value of demos
D Ensured that the team fully participated in developing the project scope

Process - Task 16 - Knowledge Transfer
The customer was not engaged enough in the project. The iteration review is the best mechanism for the team to demonstrate working software and for the customer to give feedback to ensure that their expectations are met. PMBOK Guide Sixth Edition (2017) PMI/PMI/13.3 Manage Stakeholder Engagement/p. 524. The Agile Practice Guide (2017) PMI/PMI/5.2.5 Demonstrations and Reviews/p. 55


Question: 176 (   Incorrect - You answered: B )
Although a previously identified technical issue has been resolved, the project manager is warned that the same issue is likely to occur on similar projects. Which of the following should be part of the first step in responding to the warning? 1 - Update the issue log 2 - Inform the PMO 3 - Create a risk report 4 - A communication with the project sponsor 5 - Review the lessons learned register
A 3 and 5
B 2 and 3
C 1 and 4
D 2 and 5

Process - Task 16 - Knowledge Transfer
The PMO is responsible for sharing information between concurrent projects and the lessons learned register is archived in the lessons learned repository at the end of each project. This can be reviewed by project managers in future projects to avoid past project issues. Updating the issue logs for future project cannot be done, as these projects are in the future. PMBOK Guide Sixth Edition (2017) PMI/PMI/4.4.3.1 Lessons Learned Register/p. 104


Question: 177 (   Correct - You answered: C )
You are managing a large software project for a bank and are about 50% done with the work when a new stakeholder is identified. It turns out the stakeholder will be highly impacted by the new software project. You have a tight deadline and the requirements are already firmly set. What should you do?
A Ignore the stakeholder
B Meet with the stakeholder to inform her of your project
C Meet with the stakeholder to gather her requirements
D Find someone to blame for not identifying the stakeholder earlier

People - Task 9 - Collaborate with Stakeholders
The correct course of action would be to meet with the stakeholder and document her requirements. If time permits and the change is approved, you may still be able to incorporate her requirements. At the very least, you have engaged the stakeholder and attempted to satisfy her needs. Simply informing the stakeholder of your project and not gathering her requirements, as suggested in choice B, would not be appropriate either. PMBOK Guide Sixth Edition (2017) PMI/PMI/13.0 Project Stakeholder Management/Key Concepts for Project Stakeholder Management/pp. 504-505


Question: 178 (   Incorrect - You answered: B )
Which of the following best describes your ability to understand and/or perceive the emotions of others?
A Social awareness
B Emotional intelligence
C Social skill
D Coaching

People - Task 14 - Emotional Intelligence
Option A is correct. Social awareness is one of four emotional intelligence components (self awareness, self management, social awareness, and relationship management). Social awareness is a person's ability to understand and/or perceive what others are feeling or thinking. This is performed by observing and listening to those around you. PMBOK Guide Sixth Edition (2017) PMI/PMI/9.5.2.1 Interpersonal and Team Skills/Emotional Intelligence/p. 349


Question: 179 (   Incorrect - You answered: D )
For organizations that are new to agile concepts and are working to adopt and utilize them, which of the following would be a potential roadblock to successfully achieving this?
A Executive management's willingness to change.
B Employees are specialized contributors.
C Talent management maturity and capabilities.
D Focus on short-term budgeting and metrics versus long-term goals.

Business Environment - Task 4 - Support Org Change
Organizations that have change-friendly characteristics of answers A, C and D will easily support agile principals. While answer B (indicating I-shaped people) may be a concept that we shy away from, it has nothing to do with organizations adopting agile approaches. The Agile Practice Guide (2017) PMI/PMI/6.1.2 Readiness for Change/pp. 73-74


Question: 180 (   Correct - You answered: B )
A deliverable does not meet the agreed-upon quality specifications and is rejected by the customer. After investigation, the project team finds that there is a fault with the vendor-provided parts, and this fault caused the issue. The vendor says that they cannot correct the situation. What is best to review before deciding on the next steps?
A What alternative vendors are available
B The contract agreements and procurement management plan
C The internal quality assurance reports
D The resource management plan

Process - Task 11 - Manage Procurement
A contract is a mutually binding agreement that obligates the seller to provide the specified products, services, or results; obligates the buyer to compensate the seller; and represents a legal relationship that is subject to remedy in the courts. PMBOK Guide Sixth Edition (2017) PMI/PMI/12.3 Control Procurements/p. 492


Question: 3 (   Incorrect - You answered: B )
A previously identified technical issue has been resolved and the project is moving forward. The project manager has been warned that the same issue will probably arise on similar projects in the future. What should be done first when responding to this warning?
A Ensure that the issue log is updated.
B Create a risk report and keep the report current.
C Notify the project sponsor about the warning.
D Ensure that the lessons learned register is updated.

Process - Task 15 - Manage Issues
The issue log will help the project manager effectively track and manage issues, ensuring that they are investigated and resolved. PMBOK Guide Sixth Edition (2017) PMI/PMI/4. Project Integration Management /4.3.3.3 Issue Log/p. 96


Question: 6 (   Incorrect - You answered: A )
A project has the following need: 900 resource hours must be outsourced. Because of internal policies, all providers must comprehend the requirements. Which action should the project manager take to ensure this?
A Hold direct negotiations with each provider.
B Conduct a bidder conference with the providers.
C Ensure the procurement management plan is sent to each provider.
D Have each of the providers added to the stakeholder register.

Process - Task 11 - Manage Procurement
A bidder conference is a meeting between the buyer and prospective sellers prior to proposal submittal. They are used to ensure that all prospective bidders have a clear and common understanding of the procurement and no bidders receive preferential treatment. PMBOK Guide Sixth Edition (2017) PMI/PMI/12.2.2.3 Bidder Conferences/p. 487


Question: 7 (   Incorrect - You answered: B )
Your company's Human Resources department wants to create a new web front end to its benefits system to enable all employees to register for health insurance and other benefits for the upcoming new calendar year. Since the technology is fairly new to the company and time is short, management wants to run the project in an agile fashion, since running it in a predictive fashion will take too long and will miss the registration deadline by several weeks. As the assigned project manager, you are familiar with agile but most of your team is not. Management wants the project completed in 3 weeks, and you have 6 weeks between now and the project deadline. What should you do next?
A Bring in outside agile consultants to help manage the project
B Provide coaching and mentoring in agile concepts for all team members
C Inform management that since there is insufficient agile expertise, that the project should be run in a predictive fashion
D Arrange for formal agile training for all team members

People - Task 5 - Ensure Team is TraineD While answer B is a component of servant leadership and will almost certainly be needed for his project, the best thing to do next is arrange for formal agile training for the team. Answer A is likely to be more expensive, and should only be done as a last resort (e.g., you can't get the agile training done in the time available before the project must start). Answer C isn't a viable option because it will miss the enrollment deadline by several weeks. The Agile Practice Guide (2017) PMI/PMI/3.3 Factors that Influence Tailoring/Table 3-2 Tailoring Options to Improve Fit/p. 32


Question: 8 (   Incorrect - You answered: B )
A project was not meeting scheduled dates for some tasks, so the project manager reprioritized a number of subsequent tasks to try to get the project back on track. The reprioritization did not fix the problem and now the project manager needs to escalate the issue to project stakeholders. To escalate the issue, to which plan should the project manager refer?
A Communications management plan
B Stakeholder engagement plan
C Change management plan
D Baselines for scope plan

Process - Task 2 - Manage Communications
The communications management plan is developed to ensure that the appropriate messages are communicated to stakeholders in various formats and various means as defined by the communication strategy. PMBOK Guide Sixth Edition (2017) PMI/PMI/10.1.3.1 Communications Management Plan/p. 377


Question: 10 (   Incorrect - You answered: B )
A project that is nearing completion has the following characteristics: It is very large, it contains functional groups in five different countries, closeout documents are being prepared, the project manager needs to gain acceptance of the project deliverables. What should the project manager do?
A Seek sign off from the project sponsor.
B Contact the steering committee for sign off.
C Seek sign off from the director of the project manager's business unit.
D Contact managers from the five countries involved in the project for sign off.

Process - Task 14 - Establish Governance
The project charter determines who will sign off on the project, but of the given options, the sponsor is the best answer due to their role. PMBOK Guide Sixth Edition (2017) PMI/PMI/4.7 Close Project or Phase/p. 124


Question: 13 (   Incorrect - You answered: B )
You are called to a bidder conference to bid on part of a telecommunications project. Your job as project manager will be to manage the hardware installation piece of the project. At the conference, you see a former colleague that is bidding on the wiring part of the job. You know that the integration between the wiring and the hardware can be a bit tricky and all firms competing for these two pieces of work will have to pad their bids due to the increased risk. You decide to work with your former colleague and submit one combined bid that is lower than others. This is an example of what type of risk response strategy?
A Mitigating
B Transferring
C Sharing
D Exploiting

Process - Task 3 - Manage Risks
This is an example of sharing. The new job you are bidding on is an opportunity. You decide to share the opportunity with your former colleague's company to ensure you get the work. Both companies will benefit from getting the job. PMBOK Guide Sixth Edition (2017) PMI/PMI/11.5.2.5 Strategies for Opportunities/p. 444


Question: 14 (   Incorrect - You answered: D )
A project has the following characteristics: It is in the planning stage; A key stakeholder will be unavailable for 2.5 weeks during the project. The project manager must decide what to do first, after learning about the key stakeholder's unavailability. What is the correct step to take?
A Plan a database development specification, then occasionally check to ensure the developer aligns with the specification.
B Schedule quarterly project review meetings that will include review of the data security status, and recommend remedial steps if noncompliance is found.
C Organize a meeting with the sponsor to evaluate the situation and identify alternatives.
D Continue with planning and acknowledge the impact the change may have on the project schedule.

Process - Task 15 - Manage Issues
The first thing the project manager needs to do is to capture this as an issue and communicate this to the other stakeholders. Until then, no action can or should be taken. PMBOK Guide Sixth Edition (2017) PMI/PMI/4.3.3.3 Issue Log/p. 96


Question: 16 (   Incorrect - You answered: D )
A product passes 96% percent of the functional requirements defined in the scope. A customer is unwilling to accept the product since it did not pass 100%. A project manager is assessing what could have been done differently to avoid this. What should the project manager have done?
A Assessed and evaluated the test management plan
B Created the work breakdown structure (WBS)
C Ensured that the quality metrics were defineD D Reviewed the requirements documentation
Process - Task 7 - Manage Quality
Quality metrics are a description of a project or product attribute and how to measure it. PMBOK Guide Sixth Edition (2017) PMI/PMI/8.1.3.2 Quality Metrics/p. 287


Question: 18 (   Incorrect - You answered: C )
You are a project manager who has recently had a team member leave because of an illness. While searching for a replacement you identify a person who has been a stakeholder of the project and has the correct skills you were looking for. You decide she will be the perfect replacement for the lost team member and hire her. Your team has recently agreed on how the team will operate and lately has been requiring less external supervision. What is the next stage of development your team will enter after the new team member comes on board?
A Since they are requiring less external supervision they are about to enter the Performing stage
B The addition of a new team member will cause the team to enter the Storming stage
C Because the new team member has been involved as a stakeholder on the project the team will repeat the Norming stage.
D The addition of the new team member will cause the team to enter the Forming stage.

People - Task 3 - Support Team Performance
According to Tuckman's 5-stage model of group development, anytime a new member joins the team, the process starts anew with the Forming stage. PMBOK Guide Sixth Edition (2017) PMI/PMI/9.4 Develop Team/p. 338


Question: 19 (   Incorrect - You answered: B )
A company has a goal of increasing customer satisfaction within 4 months. A project is initiated to meet this goal. The project manager needs to identify best practices. What should the project manager utilize to accomplish this?
A Benchmarking
B Focus groups
C Facilitation
D Affinity diagram

Process - Task 7 - Manage Quality
Benchmarking involves comparing actual or planned products, processes, and practices to those of comparable organizations to identify best practices, generate ideas for improvement, and provide a basis for measuring performance. PMBOK Guide Sixth Edition (2017) PMI/PMI/8.1.2.2 Data Gathering/Benchmarking/p. 281


Question: 25 (   Incorrect - You answered: C )
Which of the following best describes Level 3 conflict?
A Individuals are more focused on winning than resolving the problem.
B Individuals take sides and are not focused on resolving the issue.
C Individuals view the conflict as a win or lose situation. One party or group wants to harm the other.
D Individuals are focused on sharing information and solving problems.

People - Task 1 - Manage Conflict
Option A is correct. When at conflict Level 3 - Contest, winning becomes more important than resolving the issue at hand. Over generalizations are made and individuals focus on blaming one another. Coaching Agile Teams (2010) Addison-Wesley Signature Series/Cohn/Figure 9-1


Question: 27 (   Incorrect - You answered: A )
During a project that is 75% complete you realize team members are starting to become complacent with the collection of information and timeliness of reports. The burndown chart shows that you will most likely be a few story points shy of finishing all 86 as projected. How should you proceed?
A Counsel them about the importance of finishing within scope, cost, and schedule
B Inform team members of the importance of finishing strong
C Conduct a review of the team charter with the team and verify the integrity of the datA D Remind team members of their responsibilities and the importance of being professional and then document it on the risk report
People - Task 6 - Build a Team
Complacency can be found on any team especially towards the end of a project. Reminding the team of the importance alone does nothing to fix complacency. PMBOK Guide Sixth Edition (2017) PMI/PMI/9.1.3.2 Team Charter/pp. 319-32


Question: 28 (   Incorrect - You answered: A )
A project manager needs to ensure that all data security requirements are covered during a data warehouse development project's execution stage. Each of the databases created during different project phases will have a specific data security policy to comply with governmental data security laws. How should the project manager plan to meet these requirements?
A Plan a database development specification, then regularly check to ensure the developer aligns with the specification.
B Arrange for review of the data security status on a quarterly basis, and recommend remedial steps if noncompliance is found.
C Tell the database developer to submit documentation of data security items and the steps they take to correct items that do not meet specifications.
D Add a quality assurance specialist resource to the project team, who will be responsible for monitoring the data security quality of the project.

Business Environment - Task 1 - Manage Compliance
The project review is the best opportunity to formally review compliance. These reviews should be scheduled quarterly or at significant milestones. PMBOK Guide Sixth Edition (2017) 8. Project Quality Management /Tailoring Considerations/p. 276. PMBOK Guide Sixth Edition (2017) PMI/PMI/8. Project Quality Management/8.3.1.6 Enterprise Environmental Factors/p. 301


Question: 31 (   Incorrect - You answered: A )
Your team is 50% done with the creation of your bank application. You have been using an adaptive methodology and have a prioritized backlog. The team wants to improve their performance on cost objectives. What is the best way to do this?
A Collect lessons learneD B Conduct a retrospective
C Review project artifacts
D Review the team charter

People - Task 3 - Support Team Performance
A retrospective is used to identify what the team can improve during the upcoming sprint. Collecting lessons learned will document what went wrong, but it is planning improvements for the next iteration of work. The Agile Practice Guide (2017) PMI/PMI/5.2.1 Retrospectives/p. 5


Question: 34 (   Incorrect - You answered: D )
When protecting one's own group becomes a primary focus, what level of conflict do you need to navigate through?
A Level 5 - World War
B Level 4 - Crusade
C Level 2 - Disagreement
D Level 3 - Contest

People - Task 1 - Manage Conflict
Option B is correct. When conflict is considered level 4 (crusade), the focus is no longer on resolving the issue. Instead, the parties involved take sides and are focused on protecting their group. Coaching Agile Teams (2010)Addison-Wesley Signature Series/Cohn/Figure 9-1


Question: 35 (   Incorrect - You answered: B )
After a project delay, the project manager determines that a change is needed to the product deliverables in order to ensure quality. The project manager takes the following steps: 1. A formal change request is issued. 2. The project manager communicates the change to all stakeholders. 3. The project manager receives feedback that the communications approach did not meet stakeholder expectations. What should the project manager do next?
A Use the communications management and stakeholder engagement plans.
B Ensure stakeholders' expectations are included in the project management plan by issuing a change request.
C Hold a meeting with the project sponsor to better understand stakeholders' expectations.
D Refer to the communications management plan and issue a status report.

Process - Task 14 - Establish Governance
These two plans help establish how communication will be managed and how the stakeholders will be engaged. PMBOK Guide Sixth Edition (2017) PMI/PMI/13.2.3.1 Project Management Plan/p. 518


Question: 38 (   Incorrect - You answered: A )
Project team members are spending a lot of time helping maintenance and operations staff with a recently commissioned project component. The project manager needs to validate that the component was signed off and ownership transferred. Which three documents should the project manager use for this decision?
A Final report, organizational process assets updates, and procurement agreements
B Procurement agreements, project document updates, and organizational process assets updates
C Procurement agreements, stakeholder engagement plan, and organizational process assets updates
D Final report, project document updates, and organizational process assets updates

Process - Task 17 - Manage Closure
When closing the project, the project manager reviews the project management plan to ensure that all project work is completed and that the project has met its objectives. The project documents are updated accordingly. PMBOK Guide Sixth Edition (2017) PMI/PMI/4.7.3 Close Project or Phase: Outputs/pp. 127-128


Question: 40 (   Incorrect - You answered: B )
When an organization is considering which project life cycle methodology is appropriate to use for a given project, a suitability filter spider web diagram or model is useful. Which of the following factors is not considered when using this type of model?
A Trust
B Team Size
C Sponsorship
D Criticality

Process - Task 14 - Establish Governance
The three broad factors include culture, project and team. Trust is one of the factors under culture, criticality is under project, and team size is under team. Sponsorship is important for supporting organizational change, but it is not part of the model. The Agile Practice Guide (2017) PMI/PMI/Figure X3-1. Model for Suitability Approach/p. 127


Question: 41 (   Incorrect - You answered: D )
What is the ideal size of an effective agile team?
A 3 - 9 members
B 10 - 12 members
C 4 - 5 members
D Less than 12 members

People - Task 6 - Build a Team
In practice, the most effective team size is 3 - 9 members. Answer D is partly true but A is the best answer. The Agile Practice Guide (2017) PMI/PMI/4.3.1 Agile Teams/p. 39


Question: 46 (   Incorrect - You answered: D )
You have just been informed that you have been selected as the new project manager for the XYZ Widget project, which is on a very tight schedule. You recall that previous projects for this customer did not go as smoothly as planned with respect to both the budget and schedule so there is a lot of pressure to meet expectations on this new project. Which of the following should you do first?
A Schedule a kick-off meeting to begin brainstorming with your project team to review the schedule and to understand any issues or concerns that may immediately arise
B Ask for a copy of the project charter so you can review who the major stakeholders are, what the high level budget, schedule, and requirements are and verify your authority as the project manager
C Immediately begin identifying requirements in order to get a jump on the schedule since your primary concern is ensuring that the expectations of the project and the customer are fully met this time
D Review the project scope statement to ensure you fully understand all of the requirements and criteria for success and then schedule a meeting to begin identifying stakeholders

Process - Task 9 - Integrate Planning
A project is not officially authorized until the project charter has been created, so no other activities should be started until it has been created. Since you have already been identified as the new project manager, the project charter has already been created. The scope statement would not be created until after you have defined all of the requirements. PMBOK Guide Sixth Edition (2017) PMI/PMI/4.1.3.1 Project Charter/p. 81


Question: 48 (   Incorrect - You answered: A )
You are a project manager producing several identical components for an aerospace project. You are supposed to be producing 2 units per month worth $250,000 per unit. After 3 months you have only produced an average of 1.2 units per month. You use a formula to determine what the difference is between what you planned to do and what you actually got done. What is the formula you used?
A Schedule Performance Index (SPI)
B Cost Variance (CV)
C Schedule Variance (SV)
D Variance at completion (VAC)

Process - Task 5 - Manage Budget and Resources
The


question is talking about calculating a schedule variance (SV), which is the difference between what you produced (Earned Value) and what you were supposed to complete (Planned Value). PMBOK Guide Sixth Edition (2017) PMI/PMI/7.4.2.2 Data Analysis/Earned Value Analysis/p. 261


Question: 49 (   Incorrect - You answered: C )
A project manager is working on a software development project. Two customers are repeatedly submitting new feature requests. The completed scope definition for the product's next version release has already been provided to stakeholders. What should the project manager do next?
A Ask to meet with the product manager and discuss reducing the number of new requests.
B Meet with the sponsor immediately to discuss project boundaries.
C Meet face-to-face with stakeholders to set expectations.
D Assess the scope management plan and iterate it through the scope definition process.

Process - Task 8 - Manage Scope
The scope management plan is needed to help control the scope of the project. PMBOK Guide Sixth Edition (2017) PMI/PMI/5.6 Control Scope/p. 167


Question: 50 (   Incorrect - You answered: D )
A project is in the development stage. During this stage, there will be sensitive client data to handle. The compliance manager raises an issue of project non-compliance. What is the first document the project manager should review to check what current items are of concern?
A Statement of Work (SOW)
B Issue log
C Business case
D Risk register

Process - Task 15 - Manage Issues
After a new issue is raised, the issue log should be reviewed prior to taking action. PMBOK Guide Sixth Edition (2017) PMI/PMI/4.3.3.3 Issue Log/p. 96


Question: 55 (   Incorrect - You answered: B )
You are collecting requirements from all stakeholders during a planning meeting when stakeholders start having conflicting requirements. During the meeting tensions began to rise and people become disruptive to the meeting. The project manager decided to end the meeting earlier than scheduled to maintain relationships. The meeting was rescheduled for the next business day. What is the best way to proceed?
A Conduct a brainstorming session and establish ground rules
B Establish ground rules and begin discussions again
C Establish ground rules and use the Monte Carlo technique to collect requirements silently
D Establish ground rules, then use an affinity diagram to collect requirements followed by discrete voting applications

People - Task 10 - Build Shared Understanding
Establishing ground rules is a good practice, but without enforcement they are useless. Brainstorming could lead to the same results even with ground rules. Monte Carlo is a software application that calculates probability. An affinity diagram can be used as a silent information gathering technique that can be used with silent voting to prioritize requirements. PMBOK Guide Sixth Edition (2017) PMI/PMI/5.2.2.5 Data Representation/Affinity Diagrams/p. 144


Question: 59 (   Incorrect - You answered: A )
Which of the following would be considered agile's highest priority?
A Simplicity
B Satisfying the customer
C Working software
D Welcoming changing requirements

Process - Task 1 - Deliver Business Value
Option B is correct. The first principle outlined in the Agile Manifesto states the highest priority is to satisfy the customer through early and continuous delivery of valuable software. While answers A, C, and D are each important agile principles, they are not the highest priority. The Agile Practice Guide (2017) PMI/PMI/Figure 2-2. Twelve Principles Behind the Agile Manifesto/p. 9


Question: 60 (   Incorrect - You answered: C )
Which of the following skills will best help agile team members adapt and respond well to changes in product direction and technical changes?
A Emotional intelligence
B Technical skills
C Project management discipline
D Business acumen

People - Task 14 - Emotional Intelligence
All team members should work to exhibit initiative, integrity, emotional intelligence, honesty, collaboration, humility and willingness to communicate in various ways so that the team can work well together. These skills will increase the likelihood of team success. The Agile Practice Guide (2017) PMI/PMI/4.2.1 Servant Leader Responsibilities/Interpersonal Skills Versus Technical Skills/p. 36


Question: 61 (   Incorrect - You answered: D )
A major problem with your organizational structure is that when the project is finished, the team often has no other work to do and must be let go. Your talking to a friend about joining their company, and really like the sound to the collaboration between their project and functional managers. What types of organization structure does this refer to? 1 - Balanced Matrix 2 - Weak Matrix 3 - Functional 4 - Project-oriented 5 - Adaptive
A 4 and 5
B 1 and 4
C 2 and 3
D 1 and 3

Process - Task 13 - Determine Methodology
In a project-oriented (sometimes called projectized or composite/hybrid) organizational structure the project team reports to only one boss and is tasked with working solely on the one project. One major problem with this type of structure is what to do with the team members when the project is completed. One way this is handled is to terminate the employment of all team members. With balanced matrix organizations functional and project managers have shared authority and much collaborate in order to be effective. PMBOK Guide Sixth Edition (2017) PMI/PMI/2.4.4 Organizational Structure Types/pp. 45-49


Question: 65 (   Incorrect - You answered: C )
Who is responsible for orchestrating and integrating all planning activities for an agile project?
A Project sponsor
B Project team
C Project manager
D Customers/end/users

Process - Task 9 - Integrate Planning
Agile teams are self managing, and thus make all planning decisions. PMBOK Guide Sixth Edition (2017) PMI/PMI/4. Project Integration Management/Considerations for Agile and Adaptive Environments/p. 74


Question: 66 (   Incorrect - You answered: D )
A project is 7 months into execution. The project manager determines that the cost performance index (CPI) is .80. According to a trend analysis, the CPI has a downward trend. What is the next step that the project manager should take?
A Issue a change request for cost re-baselining.
B Ask for additional resources.
C Crash the project schedule.
D Utilize the management reserve.

Process - Task 5 - Manage Budget and Resources
Since the project is over budget and the trend analysis show that will continue, the best course of action is to re-baseline the cost of the project and manage to that. PMBOK Guide Sixth Edition (2017) PMI/PMI/7.3.3.1 Cost Baseline/p. 254


Question: 71 (   Incorrect - You answered: A )
A project manager is faced with two team members who have a conflicting view of how the work on the project should be done. The project manager sits down with the two team members and calmly discusses the options and benefits of each method. At the end of the meeting, they come up with a solution that both agree to. This is an example of what?
A Compromise
B Forcing
C Collaborating
D Withdrawal

People - Task 1 - Manage Conflict
This is an example of collaborating, also known as problem solving. With collaborating you discuss all options and work through the problem. With compromise you meet in the middle without much real discussion. PMBOK Guide Sixth Edition (2017) PMI/PMI/9.5.2.1 Interpersonal and Team Skills/Conflict Management/pp. 348-349


Question: 74 (   Incorrect - You answered: A )
Which of the following is not considered a servant leader responsibility?
A Educating stakeholders on the benefits of servant leadership and the benefits of agile
B Creating the project development approach and processes
C Providing coaching, mentoring, encouragement and support
D Assisting with technical project management activities

People - Task 5 - Ensure Team is TraineD Option B is correct. Servant leadership does not encompass creating the project development approach or processes. However, a few of the responsibilities of a servant leader are: (1) educating stakeholders on the benefits of agile; (2) provide coaching, mentoring, and support; and (3) assisting by performing the technical aspects of project management. The Agile Practice Guide (2017) PMI/PMI/4.2.1.4 Consider These Servant Leadership Responsibilities/p. 36


Question: 80 (   Incorrect - You answered: A )
Which of the following project life cycle methods is most suitable for delivering business value in the shortest timeframe?
A Six SigmA B Waterfall
C Scrum
D Capability Maturity Model Integration (CMMI)

Process - Task 1 - Deliver Business Value
Scrum is one of several agile methods (The Agile Practice Guide (2017) PMI/PMI/2.2 The Agile Manifesto and Mindset/Figure 2-4. Agile is a Blanket Term for Many Approaches/p. 11). Agile delivers value in short increments, typically 2 weeks to 1 month in duration. All other methods typically take more time. Waterfall is a predictive approach. Six Sigma focuses on process improvement. Capability Maturity Model Integration (CMMI) focuses on maturity assessment.


Question: 87 (   Incorrect - You answered: B )
You are a project manager in the Information Technology department. Your company is new to agile concepts, and while most of your department is familiar with and on board with agile, most of the business units are not. Since key stakeholders will now become part of agile teams, you realize that you will need to mentor and coach them during sprints to help "sell" them on the benefits of agile to help keep them properly engaged. Which of the following would not be a typical benefit of using agile?
A Improved quality from more frequent reviews
B Requirements are allowed to change to better match business needs on a rolling basis
C Greater accountability and productivity of empowered teams
D Increased focus on business value based on prioritization of requirements

People - Task 13 - Mentor Stakeholders
While a self organizing empowered team is a crucial part of agile, this is one of the areas that predictive management often struggles with due to a lack of trust or feeling of not being involved the same way as before. Each of the other elements directly ties to business value and can usually be accepted more quickly. The Agile Practice Guide (2017) PMI/PMI/3.1 Characteristics of Project Life Cycles/pp. 18-19


Question: 88 (   Incorrect - You answered: D )
In agile, what is the most important reason to build, test, and review small increments?
A It evaluates and delivers continuous benefits and value
B It reduces future testing of the work product at the time of release
C It promotes relationship building between the agile team and business people
D It reduces issues and risk

Business Environment - Task 2 - Evaluate/ Deliver Benefits
Option A is correct. By building, testing, and reviewing small increments, business value is evaluated and delivered continuously. The first agile principle is about delivering business value early and continuously. The Agile Practice Guide (2017) PMI/PMI/2.2 The Agile Manifesto and Mindset/p. 8; 2.4 Uncertainty, Risk, and Life Cycle Selection/p. 16


Question: 89 (   Incorrect - You answered: D )
Your company is fairly new to agile. You've just been assigned to an agile project that will likely consist of multiple 2-week sprints to deploy a functionality for a new project benefit tracking system. Your team has been trained, but most of the key stakeholders have never heard of agile, much less participated in an agile project. Which of the following would be least helpful in this situation?
A Educate stakeholders around why and how to be agile
B Include key stakeholders as members of the project team
C Update the Stakeholder register to indicate which stakeholders have agile experience
D Champion the importance of having subject matter experts (SMEs) on the team from each affected department

People - Task 9 - Collaborate with Stakeholders
You might still do answer C, but the others are more helpful in terms of actually engaging with stakeholders, which is essential for all projects--especially agile projects. The Agile Practice Guide (2017) PMI/PMI/4.3 Team Composition/p. 38


Question: 91 (   Incorrect - You answered: B )
You are managing the implementation of new accounting software at your company. Two of your stakeholders have a disagreement as to when to do the kickoff meeting. One wants to do it before planning begins and the other wants to do it at the end of planning. One stakeholder is senior to the other, however, and so she insists that it will be done at the beginning, and closes the issue. This is best described as which of the following?
A Withdraw/AvoiD B Force/AvoiD C Force/Direct
D Withdraw/Direct

People - Task 1 - Manage Conflict
Here, the more senior stakeholder used forcing to get what she wanted. Forcing is a win-lose situation because one person gets everything he or she wants, and the other person gets none of what he or she wants. PMBOK Guide Sixth Edition (2017) PMI/PMI/9.5.2.1 Interpersonal and Team Skills/Conflict Management/pp. 348-349


Question: 92 (   Incorrect - You answered: B )
Today you sign into your teams platform to get up to speed on what the Asia-Pacific team has been up to since you signed off last night to enjoy an evening with the family. As you are scrolling through the conversation string you notice that a few comments came up that seem like one of your team members has taken offense to one of the comments left by one of the North American team members from yesterday. Which of Maslow's hierarchy of needs involves the need for friends, family and affiliation? Also, what is the level just below that?
A Social, Safety
B Social, Esteem
C Cultural, Social
D Cultural, Safety

People - Task 3 - Support Team Performance
The rung on Maslow's pyramid that is marked by an individual's need for friends, family, and affiliation is the Social level. The level just below that is Safety. The five levels in order from bottom to top are physiological, safety, social, esteem and self-actualization; cultural is not part of Maslow's pyramid. Project Manager's Portable Handbook, 3rd Ed (2010) /5. Project Leadership /5.7 Motivating the Project Team /5.7.2 Maslow /Figure 5-8. Maslow's Order of Priority of Human Needs


Question: 93 (   Incorrect - You answered: C )
Where are requirements captured and documented in agile projects?
A Sprint backlog
B Scope statement
C Requirements traceability matrix
D Product backlog

Process - Task 8 - Manage Scope
A product backlog contains all requirements in the form of user stories. A sprint backlog is a refinement of the collection of user stories selected for a specific iteration or sprint. Scope statement and requirements traceability matrix are more suitable for predictive projects. PMBOK Guide Sixth Edition (2017) PMI/PMI/5 Project Scope Management/Key Concepts/p. 131; Considerations for Agile and Adaptive Environments/p. 133


Question: 96 (   Incorrect - You answered: B )
Who is responsible for approving the project management plan?
A Project manager and stakeholders
B Project manager and sponsor
C Project manager, sponsor and key stakeholders
D Sponsor only

Process - Task 9 - Integrate Planning
The project management plan is the master plan from which a predictive project will be executed. It is the responsibility of all key parties (project manager, sponsor, and key stakeholders) to approve the project management plan. PMBOK Guide Sixth Edition (2017) PMI/PMI/1.2.6.3 Project Charter and Project Management Plan/p. 34; 1.2.6.4 Project Success Measures/p. 34


Question: 98 (   Incorrect - You answered: A )
You are an agile coach in an organization that is starting to implement agile. What can be done to ease the transition to agile while beginning to satisfy certain aspects of the organization's current project management governance model?
A Use agile friendly reports and metrics to report project progress
B Educate your project management office on the benefits of agile
C You must change the current project governance model before implementing agile
D Alter your project reporting to fit governance expectations

Process - Task 14 - Establish Governance
Option D is correct. As an agile coach, you could alter your agile friendly information (burn up or burn down charts) to the required format (for example, a Gantt chart). Additionally, you could use story points, burn rate, and actual costs to provide earned value metrics. PMBOK Guide Sixth Edition (2017) PMI/PMI/1.2.6.4 Project Success Measures/p. 34


Question: 99 (   Incorrect - You answered: C )
A client's employee asks the project manager for an additional, new product feature during a status meeting. To what document should the project manager first refer to find out who has the authority to approve this request?
A Change log
B Change management plan
C Original contract documents and RACI matrix
D Change request document

Process - Task 10 - Manage Changes
The change management plan describes the process for submitting, evaluating and implementing changes to the project. PMBOK Guide Sixth Edition (2017) PMI/PMI/4.2.3.1 Project Management Plan/p. 88


Question: 102 (   Incorrect - You answered: C )
Which of the following is true about the procurement statement of work?
A It outlines the items to be provided via the procurement
B It is written by the vendor after receiving the project scope statement
C It is written by the seller as the response to a Request for Proposal (RFP)
D It is written by the buyer in response to a Request for Quote (RFQ)

Process - Task 1 - Deliver Business Value
A procurement statement of work (SOW) is a narrative description of the products or services to be delivered by the seller/vendor and is provided to the seller/vendor to aid in deciding if they are capable of providing the goods or services. While an RFQ or an RFP could include an SOW, it would be provided along with it and not as a response. PMBOK Guide Sixth Edition (2017) PMI/PMI/12.1.3.4 Procurement Statement of Work/p. 477


Question: 108 (   Incorrect - You answered: A )
What are the primary benefit of the sprint review meeting? 1 - The analysis of what the team did well, and could be improved 2 - Elicit feedback on the work that has been completed 3 - Updating the sprint backlog 4 - The evaluation and delivery of project value 5 - Meeting daily to discuss the team's impediments
A 1 and 3
B 2 and 3
C 4 and 5
D 2 and 4

Business Environment - Task 2 - Evaluate/ Deliver Benefits
Option D is correct. The sprint review meeting focuses on demonstrating and delivering working software from the prior sprint that meets the acceptance criteria defined by the product owner. The Agile Practice Guide (2017) PMI/PMI/5.2.5 Demonstrations/Reviews/p. 55


Question: 109 (   Incorrect - You answered: D )
Review the following project characteristics: -The project is in its initiation stage. -Due to lack of funding, the project gets terminated. -The project manager must close the project. What is the first action the project manager should take?
A Rely on the communications management plan to properly inform all stakeholders.
B Examine the organization's project closure guidelines.
C Determine the potential impact of terminating the project by performing a risk analysis.
D Close all project procurement processes.

Process - Task 17 - Manage Closure
Project closure guidelines or requirements will be contained in the organization's procedures. PMBOK Guide Sixth Edition (2017) PMI/PMI/2.3.1 Organizational process Assets/p. 41


Question: 111 (   Incorrect - You answered: B )
A large project includes functional groups in four countries. It is close to completion, so the project manager must prepare the closeout documents. How should the project manager obtain appropriate signoff on the acceptance of project deliverables?
A The project sponsor should be asked to sign off.
B The steering committee should be asked to sign off.
C The director of the project manager's business unit should be asked to sign off.
D The four managers from the four countries should be asked to sign off.

Process - Task 14 - Establish Governance
Since the sponsor provided the resources for the project, it is their responsibility to officially sign off on the project deliverables. PMBOK Guide Sixth Edition (2017) PMI/PMI/4.7.1.4 Accepted Deliverables/p. 124


Question: 112 (   Incorrect - You answered: B )
Your project team does not understand the fundamentals of project management. You feel this has the potential to harm your project. You decide to put together a half-day training session to teach project management basics. Which of the following have you achieved by having this training?
A Develop your project team
B Avoid Risk
C Acquire Resources
D Analyze Risk

People - Task 5 - Ensure Team is TraineD This is an example of developing your project team because you are enhancing the team's overall competencies and skills. Note that B is incorrect because avoiding a risk means taking it off the table completely, but project failures could still occur notwithstanding the training. PMBOK Guide Sixth Edition (2017) PMI/PMI/9.4 Develop Team/p. 336


Question: 116 (   Incorrect - You answered: B )
Team performance can be enhanced when agile practitioners apply emotional intelligence. Which of the following is not a component of emotional intelligence?
A Self awareness
B Relationship management
C Social evaluation
D Self management

People - Task 14 - Emotional Intelligence
Option C is correct. Emotional intelligence is comprised of four components; (1) self-awareness; (2) self-management (3) social-awareness; and (4) relationship management. Emotional intelligence is a social skill used to improve self and team performance. PMBOK Guide Sixth Edition (2017) PMI/PMI/9 Project Resource Management/Trends and Emerging Practices in Project Resource Management/Emotional Intelligence/p. 31


Question: 117 (   Incorrect - You answered: D )
While communicating an issue with the project with one of the stakeholders, they begin crossing their arms and becoming very defensive with you. You require their support on this project and they are known to be passive aggressive. How should you proceed?
A They concur with your thoughts on the issue and they are frustrated with the engineers for causing this problem
B They think you are blaming them for the issue and you should adjust your approach immediately and focus on how much they have done for the project
C Document the stakeholders response on the lessons learned register
D Change the topic of the conversation and try again tomorrow

People - Task 14 - Emotional Intelligence
Their body language changed during the conversation, this implies something stated began to bother the stakeholder. By focusing on the good things they have done it will make it easier to listen to how they can improve. Documenting it on the lessons learned register will not solve the issue currently at hand. Changing the topic will not solve the current issue and the issue still was not addressed. PMBOK Guide Sixth Edition (2017) PMI/PMI/10.2.2.3 Communications Skills/Non-Verbal/p. 384


Question: 121 (   Incorrect - You answered: D )
Your company is new to agile concepts, and all people involved with projects have recently completed agile training. You have just been assigned as a project manager for your first agile project to develop a web front end for internal employees to register for health insurance and other benefits for the upcoming calendar year, with an expected delivery of 3 weeks. The project life cycle methodologies that are currently available are all based on a predictive/waterfall approach. What is the best course of action?
A Ask the project management office to develop a new agile methodology that will work for the new project
B Work with the project management office to develop a new or streamline an existing methodology that will work for the project
C Bring in outside agile consultants to help manage the project
D Create the initial work assignments for your resources since you are on a tight timeline, then work with the group to find the best way to get to agile as you move forward.

People - Task 7 - Remove Obstacles
This is the hallmark of servant leadership. The Agile Practice Guide (2017) PMI/PMI/4.2.1 Servant Leader Responsibilities/p. 34


Question: 122 (   Incorrect - You answered: C )
After six iterations, significant variations have occurred to the project scope and schedule. These are due to the customer's technology regulations and security policies, which are regularly reviewed. The project manager wants to suggest a new approach to the next iteration to avoid possible delays. What should the project manager do first?
A Rank the importance of each improvement item, then implement actions identified during the last retrospective.
B Engage in a cost-benefit analysis that can help predict the profits that could be realized through the use of new technology for the next phase.
C Research new technology trends and management tools that have been successful on similar projects.
D Use a backlog refinement meeting and include the customer's change requests in the discussion.

Process - Task 16 - Knowledge Transfer
The retrospective is used to review lessons learned and suggest corrective actions for the next iterations. Essential Scrum - A Practical Guide to the Most Popular Agile Process (2012), Chapter 22. Sprint Retrospective /Overview. The Agile Practice Guide (2017) PMI/PMI/5.2.1. Retrospectives/pp. 50-51


Question: 123 (   Incorrect - You answered: B )
Which of the following is not an example of collaboration within an agile team?
A Storming
B Mobbing
C Swarming
D Pairing

People - Task 1 - Manage Conflict
Storming is a stage in the Tuckman model. The others are all part of a collaborative, agile team. The Agile Practice Guide (2017) PMI/PMI/4.3.1 Agile Teams/p. 39


Question: 125 (   Incorrect - You answered: C )
You are the project manager at a healthcare services company. Two of your team members are having a disagreement that they cannot resolve, and it is beginning to affect the entire project team's performance. Which technique should you use if your main goal is to develop a solution that all agree to?
A Collaborating
B Avoiding
C Smoothing
D Forcing

People - Task 9 - Collaborate with Stakeholders
Collaboration involves hearing different opinions and thoughtfully working through the problems to find solutions that are agreeable to all. Avoiding just puts the problem off until later. Smoothing is where you make everyone feel good, but dodge the real issue. PMBOK Guide Sixth Edition (2017) PMI/PMI/9.5.2.1 Interpersonal and Team Skills/Conflict Management/pp. 348-349


Question: 128 (   Incorrect - You answered: A )
When working in a highly regulated industry, what can be done to ensure any changes in regulatory compliance are met during an agile project?
A Evaluate regulatory compliance during the daily scrum
B Continuously refine the product backlog
C Use affinity estimating
D Refactoring

Business Environment - Task 1 - Manage Compliance
Option B is correct. Requirements for new and/or changing regulatory compliance will be incorporated into the product backlog as they arise if the product owner refines the backlog regularly. The Agile Practice Guide (2017) PMI/PMI/5.2.3 Backlog Refinement/p. 52


Question: 132 (   Incorrect - You answered: B )
Your company has won a contract to oversee the expansion of a major highway in your area. The project had been discussed for several years, and due to constant changes in the political climate, the controversial project was hard to get off the ground. The project has drawn criticism from nearby residential landowners, environmental groups, and taxpayers who deem it too expensive. Moreover, some environmental studies suggest that the subsurface in some areas may be inadequate to sustain the road, which may result in expensive detours being built around those spots. You are working on your risk management plan. What is the best way to proceed?
A Set aside reserves to cover the costs of these risks and others that have been identifieD B Conduct a feasibility study to determine whether the project should go forward under these circumstances
C Document each category of risk in the Risk Management Plan to help ensure all risks are properly identifieD D Ask the sponsor to assign an independent project team to assess and handle project risk
Process - Task 3 - Evaluate Scope Changes
The Risk Management Plan should contain risk categories, which will help you systematically identify risks as you move through risk planning. A risk breakdown structure may be used to show risk categories, and this would be part of the Risk Management Plan. Remember, since you are working on the Risk Management Plan, you have not yet documented specific risks, as suggested in choice A. PMBOK Guide Sixth Edition (2017) PMI/PMI/11.1.3.1 Risk Management Plan/pp. 405-408


Question: 134 (   Incorrect - You answered: A )
Your team is on sprint four (4) of an estimated ten (10) sprints for the creation of a sports game for a major corporation. A stakeholder has been holding on to information that is required to complete each sprint and it is starting to delay the progress of work and completion of sprints. As the product owner, how should you proceed?
A Refer to the Stakeholder Engagement Plan and Communication Management Plan then engage the person appropriately
B Report the issue to the team facilitator and have them speak with the stakeholder
C Have the sponsor engage the stakeholder
D Document this in the risk register and brainstorm potential responses

People - Task 7 - Remove Obstacles
The product owner is responsible for guiding the direction of the product and managing the backlog. The team facilitator is responsible for removing impediments for team members. The team facilitator is also known as scrum master, project team lead, team coach, and project manager. The Agile Practice Guide (2017) PMI/PMI/Table 4-2. Agile Team Roles/p. 41


Question: 135 (   Incorrect - You answered: C )
In a strong matrix organization the role of the project manager is best described as?
A Expediter
B Full-time
C Coordinator
D Part-time

People - Task 4 - Empower Team
In a balanced matrix, strong matrix, and project-oriented organizational structure, the role of the project manager is full time. According to the PMBOK Guide, in a functional organization, the role of the project manager is part-time and is more like a project coordinator or project expediter. PMBOK Guide Sixth Edition (2017) PMI/PMI/2.4.4.2 Factors in Organizational Structure Selection/Table 2-1. Influences of Organizational Structures on Projects/p. 47


Question: 138 (   Incorrect - You answered: B )
A medium-sized company is expanding into a new market. However, the company does not have previous experience in that market. A project manager needs to collect requirements. Which tool or technique should the project manager use?
A Prototypes
B Expert judgment
C Product analysis
D Create requirements traceability matrix

Process - Task 8 - Manage Scope
Prototyping is a method of obtaining early feedback on requirements by providing a model of the expected product before actually building it. PMBOK Guide Sixth Edition (2017) PMI/PMI/5.2.2.8 Prototypes/p. 147


Question: 139 (   Incorrect - You answered: D )
A customer indicates that they would like to add functionality. Although this request is made during the execution stage of this waterfall project, the project manager finds that the cost for the addition would be small. The additional functionality, if successful, would increase the opportunity for profit. What should the project manager do next?
A Agree that the functionality would offer a great opportunity, but the proposed addition is out of scope.
B Schedule a meeting with the company's management team, and present the customer's request for additional functionality as a good opportunity.
C Move forward, using the project's management reserve to add the requested functionality.
D Add it to the product backlog and prioritize it against the other components of the project.

Process - Task 1 - Deliver Business Value
By building a small increment and then testing and reviewing it, the team can add value in terms of new functionalities or additional awarded projects. An important factor for a successful implementation and value capture is the response time of the team. PMBOK Guide Sixth Edition (2017) PMI/PMI/1.2.4.1 Project and Development Life Cycles/p. 19


Question: 142 (   Incorrect - You answered: A )
You know a small portion of your project work will have to be performed by contract workers from an external organization, however, you cannot currently create a precise statement of work for this procurement. Which type of contract would be best suited for this situation?
A Cost Plus Incentive Fee (CPIF)
B Fixed Price (FP)
C Cost Plus Percentage of Costs (CPPC)
D Time and Materials (T&M)

Process - Task 1 - Deliver Business Value
Time and materials (T&M) contracts are best used in cases where precise statements of work cannot be readily prescribed. They are most commonly used for staff augmentation, as indicated in the facts of this


question. You should consider using a not-to-exceed clause to help prevent runaway costs when using this contract type. PMBOK Guide Sixth Edition (2017) PMI/PMI/12.1.1.6 Organizational Process Assets/Contract Types/Time and Materials/p. 472


Question: 143 (   Incorrect - You answered: C )
A project has the following characteristics: -A functional manager is also a project stakeholder. -The functional manager has time constraints and delegates project responsibilities to someone else on the functional team. -The new stakeholder is not attending meetings. The project manager needs to engage this new stakeholder. What should the project manager do?
A Examine the project charter with the new stakeholder and assess their level of engagement.
B Present the project schedule and the specific, assigned tasks to the new stakeholder.
C Request the functional manager briefs this new stakeholder and ask that they send them to all relevant meetings.
D Ask the new stakeholder to pair with a more experienced stakeholder to learn responsibilities.

Process - Task 4 - Engage Stakeholders
The first version of the stakeholder engagement plan is developed after the initial stakeholder community has been identified by the Identify Stakeholder process. The stakeholder engagement plan is updated regularly to reflect changes to the stakeholder community. PMBOK Guide Sixth Edition (2017) PMI/PMI/13.2.3.1 Stakeholder Engagement Plan/p. 522


Question: 145 (   Incorrect - You answered: D )
While having lunch with a few friends, some of which are stakeholders in your project when the topic of the agile methodology comes up. One of them states they do not understand this methodology and they prefer the traditional way of doing things and others agree with this sentiment. Your project is using an incremental approach and this will have no impact on it. What would be your best response?
A Document this on the issue log for future projects
B Discuss with them how agile is best used for projects with a high-uncertainty of work and frequent change
C Tell them it is only used for software development projects and will never impact us
D Laugh it off so you don't offend them

People - Task 13 - Mentor Stakeholders
Take advantage of this opportunity to mentor them on the benefits of agile and the types of projects that would benefit the most from it. An issue log is a document for ongoing projects. The agile approach is not limited to software development, but can be used by teachers, doctors, lawyers, and problem solving engineers. The Agile Practice Guide (2017) PMI/PMI/1.0 Introduction/Agile Based Learning/p. 2


Question: 149 (   Incorrect - You answered: A )
You are managing a project which is wrapping up. One of your team members, Luke, comes to you to voice some frustrations about his role in the project. He feels that his job on the project was never clearly established, and that he was never provided with any concrete goals. Even though the team had been working together for a few months he never felt trusted to try his strengths and truly excel during the project. If this is true, you may have done a poor job with which of the following?
A Team Performance Assessments
B Roles and Responsibilities
C Team-Building Activities
D Communication Methods

People - Task 6 - Build a Team
Roles and responsibilities are a component of the resource management plan. The


question suggests poor planning was done for project resources, this can lead to confusion is roles and doubts in expectations. PMBOK Guide Sixth Edition (2017) PMI/PMI/9.1.3.1 Resource Management Plan/Roles and Responsibilities/pp. 318-319


Question: 150 (   Incorrect - You answered: B )
What is the purpose of a RACI matrix?
A Displays the relationship between work packages and team members
B Defines communication channels
C Authorizes work to begin
D Speeds up the project schedule

People - Task 6 - Build a Team
RACI stands for Responsible, Accountable, Consult, and Inform. It is used to identify roles, responsibilities and authority on a responsibility assignment matrix (RAM). The purpose of a RACI matrix is to show the relationship between work packages (or activities) and team members. PMBOK Guide Sixth Edition (2017) PMI/PMI/9.1.2.2 Data Representation/Responsibility Assignment Matrix/p. 317


Question: 151 (   Incorrect - You answered: D )
Which of the following eXtreme programming (XP) practices best assists with changes affecting project scope?
A On-site customer
B Planning games
C Simple design
D Coding standards

Business Environment - Task 3 - Evaluate Scope Changes
Option A is correct. The on-site customer practice includes embedding a customer (or customer representative) into the team itself. Therefore, if external circumstances, (market conditions, competition, financial considerations, etc...) present themselves, the agile team can act quickly and decisively. The Agile Practice Guide (2017) PMI/PMI/A3.3 Extreme Programming/Table A3-2. The Practices of eXtreme Programming/Organizational/p. 102


Question: 155 (   Incorrect - You answered: B )
You are managing a project that will produce the next new supercomputer. As each new unit is produced your team is taking measurements and recording them in a control chart. Which of the following results should you be least concerned with?
A A data point that is just above the upper control limit
B Seven consecutive data points above the mean, but within the control limits
C A data point that is just below the lower control limit
D Several data points falling well above and below the mean, but within the control limits

Process - Task 7 - Manage Quality
Choice D is describing a random pattern of measurements that fall on either side of the mean. This is not a cause for concern to the project manager. Choice B, where 7 points fall consecutively on one side of the mean, should be of concern since this means your process is out of control. Choices A and C are both problems as well, since both represent data points that fall outside the control limits (meaning the process is out of control). Project Management: A Systems Approach to Planning, Scheduling, and Controlling (2009)/Kerzner/Wiley/20 Quality Management/Control Chart Interpretation/p. 907


Question: 157 (   Incorrect - You answered: A )
Two of your team members are arguing over a technical issue on your project. You suggest that they put their differences aside and offer to take them both to lunch. Which conflict resolution technique did you use?
A Withdrawal
B Compromise
C Smoothing
D Collaborating

People - Task 1 - Manage Conflict
This is an example of smoothing, which occurs when you try to gloss over the issue or change the subject. As a good project manager this is not your best option, because the problem still exists and will likely come up again. The better option would have been to collaborate, which would involve sitting down, discussing options, and trying to solve the problem. Withdrawal is where one party shuts down or walks away from the conversation. Compromise is where both parties give something up and meet in the middle. PMBOK Guide Sixth Edition (2017) PMI/PMI/9.5.2.1 Interpersonal and Team Skills/Conflict Management/pp. 348-349


Question: 160 (   Incorrect - You answered: C )
What can be used to improve the accuracy and reliability of release planning?
A Consensus building
B Affinity estimating
C Sprint planning meeting
D Velocity

Process - Task 17 - Manage Closure
Option D is correct. By understanding a teams current velocity (the number of story points a team can finish per sprint based on past performance) and knowing the remaining story points required for the release, a release date can be forecasted more accurately. The Agile Practice Guide (2017) PMI/PMI/5.4.1 Agile Teams Measure Results/pp. 61-64


Question: 167 (   Incorrect - You answered: B )
Which of the following is not a contracting technique an agile coach can utilize to help create a win-win, collaborative relationship with a vendor?
A Multi-tiered structure
B Emphasize value deliver
C Dynamic cancelation option
D Not-to-exceed time and materials

People - Task 8 - Negotiate Agreements
Option C is correct. Answers A, B, and D are all valid contracting techniques an agile coach would use while negotiating with a vendor. Dynamic cancelation option is not a valid contracting technique. The Agile Practice Guide (2017) PMI/PMI/6.3 Procurement and Contract/pp. 77-78


Question: 168 (   Incorrect - You answered: C )
A software vendor is behind on a key project deliverable. There is a 21% buffer in the budget for cost overruns. The project manager needs to mitigate the issue. Which action should the project manager take next?
A Evaluate alternative software vendors that can help project deliverables despite resource constraints.
B Remove the current vendor and have the new vendor send a contract.
C Ask the vendor to meet to discuss options for helping them get caught up.
D Accept the cost overrun and update the project schedule.

Process - Task 11 - Manage Procurement
The first step is analysis and evaluation of alternate options. After that, specific and appropriate action can be taken. PMBOK Guide Sixth Edition (2017) PMI/PMI/12.3 Control Procurements/p. 492


Question: 169 (   Incorrect - You answered: D )
A planned task for a project does not get completed due to an issue that appeared three days ago but did not get resolved. The project manager wants to prevent this type of situation in the future. What should the project manager do?
A During the retrospective, examine the issue.
B In the demo, address the issue.
C During the next iteration planning meeting, discuss the issue.
D In the next daily standup meeting, review the issue.

Process - Task 6 - Manage Schedule
The retrospective allows issues with the execution approach to be identified and discussed in a timely fashion along with ideas for improvements. Retrospectives are a primary tool to manage project knowledge and develop the team through discussions of what is working well and team-based problem solving. PMBOK Guide Sixth Edition (2017) PMI/PMI/6.6 Control Schedule/p. 224; The Agile Practice Guide (2017) PMI/PMI/5.2.1 Retrospectives/pp. 50-51


Question: 171 (   Incorrect - You answered: D )
Jeff is a senior engineer on your project. During a progress review meeting you come across a potentially disastrous risk to your project. Jeff tells the team that he has a fix to avoid the risk and ensure everything goes smoothly. Everyone trusts Jeff's advice, because he has a lot of experience handling these types of technical risks. What kind of power does Jeff have?
A Formal
B Expert
C Legitimate
D Referent

People - Task 4 - Empower Team
There are 14 types or sources of power. Some of these include formal/legitimate, expert, reward, referent, and punishment/penalty. Jeff derives his power from his vast amount of experience, thus he is using Expert power. Positional (aka Formal /Legitimate) power is derived from your position or title. Referent power is derived from your charisma or how well others like you. PMBOK Guide Sixth Edition (2017) PMI/PMI/3.4.4.3 Politics, Power, and Getting Things Done/pp. 62-63


Question: 172 (   Incorrect - You answered: D )
A project manager has been asked to conduct a risk analysis that is based on a high-level scope. As part of the analysis, the project manager must use expert judgment to prepare a document. Which document-based action is being performed?
A Creating the project charter
B Preparing the scope statement document
C Creating a project management plan
D Documenting the risk management plan

Process - Task 1 - Deliver Business Value
Expert judgment is one of the tools and techniques for developing the project charter. PMBOK Guide Sixth Edition (2017) PMI/PMI/4.2.1 Develop Project Charter/p. 79


Question: 174 (   Incorrect - You answered: B )
You are running an agile project and many of the people on the team are relatively new to agile concepts. You are concerned about how well the team will adapt and perform over the long run, and want to help the team improve as it delivers each iteration. What is the best practice for doing this?
A Facilitate daily stand-up meetings
B Coach and mentor each team member throughout the project
C Have an independent party conduct an audit of the agile process and its effectiveness
D Conduct retrospectives at the end of each iteration

People - Task 3 - Support Team Performance
The retrospective is the most important practice for the team to learn about, improve, and adapt to the process. You might still do the other things, but the retrospective is the most important one for long term gains. The Agile Practice Guide (2017) PMI/PMI/5.2.1 Retrospectives/p. 5


Question: 175 (   Incorrect - You answered: D )
A customer is not satisfied with the delivered product, saying that it was not what they expected. The project manager is surprised, because the agile development team delivered the product several iterations early. What is one way that the project manager could have avoided this result?
A Required team sign off for each of the constant changes to the requirements
B Set aside more resources for product testing after changes are made
C Made sure that the customer was aware of the value of demos
D Ensured that the team fully participated in developing the project scope

Process - Task 16 - Knowledge Transfer
The customer was not engaged enough in the project. The iteration review is the best mechanism for the team to demonstrate working software and for the customer to give feedback to ensure that their expectations are met. PMBOK Guide Sixth Edition (2017) PMI/PMI/13.3 Manage Stakeholder Engagement/p. 524. The Agile Practice Guide (2017) PMI/PMI/5.2.5 Demonstrations and Reviews/p. 55


Question: 176 (   Incorrect - You answered: A )
Although a previously identified technical issue has been resolved, the project manager is warned that the same issue is likely to occur on similar projects. Which of the following should be part of the first step in responding to the warning? 1 - Update the issue log 2 - Inform the PMO 3 - Create a risk report 4 - A communication with the project sponsor 5 - Review the lessons learned register
A 3 and 5
B 2 and 3
C 1 and 4
D 2 and 5

Process - Task 16 - Knowledge Transfer
The PMO is responsible for sharing information between concurrent projects and the lessons learned register is archived in the lessons learned repository at the end of each project. This can be reviewed by project managers in future projects to avoid past project issues. Updating the issue logs for future project cannot be done, as these projects are in the future. PMBOK Guide Sixth Edition (2017) PMI/PMI/4.4.3.1 Lessons Learned Register/p. 104


Question: 177 (   Incorrect - You answered: B )
You are managing a large software project for a bank and are about 50% done with the work when a new stakeholder is identified. It turns out the stakeholder will be highly impacted by the new software project. You have a tight deadline and the requirements are already firmly set. What should you do?
A Ignore the stakeholder
B Meet with the stakeholder to inform her of your project
C Meet with the stakeholder to gather her requirements
D Find someone to blame for not identifying the stakeholder earlier

People - Task 9 - Collaborate with Stakeholders
The correct course of action would be to meet with the stakeholder and document her requirements. If time permits and the change is approved, you may still be able to incorporate her requirements. At the very least, you have engaged the stakeholder and attempted to satisfy her needs. Simply informing the stakeholder of your project and not gathering her requirements, as suggested in choice B, would not be appropriate either. PMBOK Guide Sixth Edition (2017) PMI/PMI/13.0 Project Stakeholder Management/Key Concepts for Project Stakeholder Management/pp. 504-505


Question: 178 (   Incorrect - You answered: B )
Which of the following best describes your ability to understand and/or perceive the emotions of others?
A Social awareness
B Emotional intelligence
C Social skill
D Coaching

People - Task 14 - Emotional Intelligence
Option A is correct. Social awareness is one of four emotional intelligence components (self awareness, self management, social awareness, and relationship management). Social awareness is a person's ability to understand and/or perceive what others are feeling or thinking. This is performed by observing and listening to those around you. PMBOK Guide Sixth Edition (2017) PMI/PMI/9.5.2.1 Interpersonal and Team Skills/Emotional Intelligence/p. 349


Question: 179 (   Incorrect - You answered: D )
For organizations that are new to agile concepts and are working to adopt and utilize them, which of the following would be a potential roadblock to successfully achieving this?
A Executive management's willingness to change.
B Employees are specialized contributors.
C Talent management maturity and capabilities.
D Focus on short-term budgeting and metrics versus long-term goals.

Business Environment - Task 4 - Support Org Change
Organizations that have change-friendly characteristics of answers A, C and D will easily support agile principals. While answer B (indicating I-shaped people) may be a concept that we shy away from, it has nothing to do with organizations adopting agile approaches. The Agile Practice Guide (2017) PMI/PMI/6.1.2 Readiness for Change/pp. 73-74


Question: 3 (   Incorrect - You answered: D )
A previously identified technical issue has been resolved and the project is moving forward. The project manager has been warned that the same issue will probably arise on similar projects in the future. What should be done first when responding to this warning?
A Ensure that the issue log is updated.
B Create a risk report and keep the report current.
C Notify the project sponsor about the warning.
D Ensure that the lessons learned register is updated.

Process - Task 15 - Manage Issues
The issue log will help the project manager effectively track and manage issues, ensuring that they are investigated and resolved. PMBOK Guide Sixth Edition (2017) PMI/PMI/4. Project Integration Management /4.3.3.3 Issue Log/p. 96


Question: 6 (   Incorrect - You answered: A )
A project has the following need: 900 resource hours must be outsourced. Because of internal policies, all providers must comprehend the requirements. Which action should the project manager take to ensure this?
A Hold direct negotiations with each provider.
B Conduct a bidder conference with the providers.
C Ensure the procurement management plan is sent to each provider.
D Have each of the providers added to the stakeholder register.

Process - Task 11 - Manage Procurement
A bidder conference is a meeting between the buyer and prospective sellers prior to proposal submittal. They are used to ensure that all prospective bidders have a clear and common understanding of the procurement and no bidders receive preferential treatment. PMBOK Guide Sixth Edition (2017) PMI/PMI/12.2.2.3 Bidder Conferences/p. 487


Question: 7 (   Incorrect - You answered: B )
Your company's Human Resources department wants to create a new web front end to its benefits system to enable all employees to register for health insurance and other benefits for the upcoming new calendar year. Since the technology is fairly new to the company and time is short, management wants to run the project in an agile fashion, since running it in a predictive fashion will take too long and will miss the registration deadline by several weeks. As the assigned project manager, you are familiar with agile but most of your team is not. Management wants the project completed in 3 weeks, and you have 6 weeks between now and the project deadline. What should you do next?
A Bring in outside agile consultants to help manage the project
B Provide coaching and mentoring in agile concepts for all team members
C Inform management that since there is insufficient agile expertise, that the project should be run in a predictive fashion
D Arrange for formal agile training for all team members

People - Task 5 - Ensure Team is TraineD While answer B is a component of servant leadership and will almost certainly be needed for his project, the best thing to do next is arrange for formal agile training for the team. Answer A is likely to be more expensive, and should only be done as a last resort (e.g., you can't get the agile training done in the time available before the project must start). Answer C isn't a viable option because it will miss the enrollment deadline by several weeks. The Agile Practice Guide (2017) PMI/PMI/3.3 Factors that Influence Tailoring/Table 3-2 Tailoring Options to Improve Fit/p. 32


Question: 8 (   Incorrect - You answered: C )
A project was not meeting scheduled dates for some tasks, so the project manager reprioritized a number of subsequent tasks to try to get the project back on track. The reprioritization did not fix the problem and now the project manager needs to escalate the issue to project stakeholders. To escalate the issue, to which plan should the project manager refer?
A Communications management plan
B Stakeholder engagement plan
C Change management plan
D Baselines for scope plan

Process - Task 2 - Manage Communications
The communications management plan is developed to ensure that the appropriate messages are communicated to stakeholders in various formats and various means as defined by the communication strategy. PMBOK Guide Sixth Edition (2017) PMI/PMI/10.1.3.1 Communications Management Plan/p. 377


Question: 10 (   Incorrect - You answered: D )
A project that is nearing completion has the following characteristics: It is very large, it contains functional groups in five different countries, closeout documents are being prepared, the project manager needs to gain acceptance of the project deliverables. What should the project manager do?
A Seek sign off from the project sponsor.
B Contact the steering committee for sign off.
C Seek sign off from the director of the project manager's business unit.
D Contact managers from the five countries involved in the project for sign off.

Process - Task 14 - Establish Governance
The project charter determines who will sign off on the project, but of the given options, the sponsor is the best answer due to their role. PMBOK Guide Sixth Edition (2017) PMI/PMI/4.7 Close Project or Phase/p. 124


Question: 12 (   Incorrect - You answered: D )
You are a project manager for a new medical device. Current market demand requires the new device to be capable of being used in various conditions, by differing levels of user expertise, be made available in different languages all over the world, and other external factors. Which of the following would best be utilized to analyze or identify risks for all of these factors?
A Risk register
B Stakeholder register
C PESTLE Analysis
D Probability and Impact Analysis

Business Environment - Task 3 - Evaluate Scope Changes
Of the options presented, a PESTLE analysis is used to identify the external business environment factors that can affect the value and desired outcomes of a project. PMBOK Guide Sixth Edition (2017) PMI/PMI/11.2.2.5 Prompt Lists/p. 416


Question: 13 (   Incorrect - You answered: B )
You are called to a bidder conference to bid on part of a telecommunications project. Your job as project manager will be to manage the hardware installation piece of the project. At the conference, you see a former colleague that is bidding on the wiring part of the job. You know that the integration between the wiring and the hardware can be a bit tricky and all firms competing for these two pieces of work will have to pad their bids due to the increased risk. You decide to work with your former colleague and submit one combined bid that is lower than others. This is an example of what type of risk response strategy?
A Mitigating
B Transferring
C Sharing
D Exploiting

Process - Task 3 - Manage Risks
This is an example of sharing. The new job you are bidding on is an opportunity. You decide to share the opportunity with your former colleague's company to ensure you get the work. Both companies will benefit from getting the job. PMBOK Guide Sixth Edition (2017) PMI/PMI/11.5.2.5 Strategies for Opportunities/p. 444


Question: 14 (   Incorrect - You answered: D )
A project has the following characteristics: It is in the planning stage; A key stakeholder will be unavailable for 2.5 weeks during the project. The project manager must decide what to do first, after learning about the key stakeholder's unavailability. What is the correct step to take?
A Plan a database development specification, then occasionally check to ensure the developer aligns with the specification.
B Schedule quarterly project review meetings that will include review of the data security status, and recommend remedial steps if noncompliance is found.
C Organize a meeting with the sponsor to evaluate the situation and identify alternatives.
D Continue with planning and acknowledge the impact the change may have on the project schedule.

Process - Task 15 - Manage Issues
The first thing the project manager needs to do is to capture this as an issue and communicate this to the other stakeholders. Until then, no action can or should be taken. PMBOK Guide Sixth Edition (2017) PMI/PMI/4.3.3.3 Issue Log/p. 96


Question: 15 (   Incorrect - You answered: A )
You are a project manager of a project close to completing the delivery of the final product when an important stakeholder contacts you about a requirement that seems to be missing from the project scope. You schedule a meeting with them to discuss the specifics of the requirement and the possible options for handling it. During the meeting, the conversation becomes somewhat heated when the stakeholder demands to know when the requirement will be completed. What is the ideal way to handle this situation?
A Use the conflict resolution technique of Smoothing to examine the alternatives and identify a win-win solution
B Explain that any details on whether the requirement is approved or might be completed would be made by the Change Control Board (CCB) and assist them in completing a change request.
C Recognize the stakeholder as a resistor and leave the meeting room to avoid further conflict with a stakeholder
D Agree to personally handle their request to ensure that it is completed as soon as possible to avoid any further conflict

People - Task 10 - Build Shared Understanding
The Change Control Board (CCB) must review and approve all change requests. Explaining this fact and then assisting with the completion of the change request is the best way to handle this. The technique of smoothing does not involve examining alternatives and is not win-win. Withdrawing during a conflict is never the best option. Agreeing to personally handle the request and to ensure it's completed as soon as possible sets an unrealistic expectation that it is already approved. PMBOK Guide Sixth Edition (2017) PMI/PMI/4.5 Perform Integrated Change Control/p. 115


Question: 16 (   Incorrect - You answered: A )
A product passes 96% percent of the functional requirements defined in the scope. A customer is unwilling to accept the product since it did not pass 100%. A project manager is assessing what could have been done differently to avoid this. What should the project manager have done?
A Assessed and evaluated the test management plan
B Created the work breakdown structure (WBS)
C Ensured that the quality metrics were defineD D Reviewed the requirements documentation
Process - Task 7 - Manage Quality
Quality metrics are a description of a project or product attribute and how to measure it. PMBOK Guide Sixth Edition (2017) PMI/PMI/8.1.3.2 Quality Metrics/p. 287


Question: 18 (   Incorrect - You answered: C )
You are a project manager who has recently had a team member leave because of an illness. While searching for a replacement you identify a person who has been a stakeholder of the project and has the correct skills you were looking for. You decide she will be the perfect replacement for the lost team member and hire her. Your team has recently agreed on how the team will operate and lately has been requiring less external supervision. What is the next stage of development your team will enter after the new team member comes on board?
A Since they are requiring less external supervision they are about to enter the Performing stage
B The addition of a new team member will cause the team to enter the Storming stage
C Because the new team member has been involved as a stakeholder on the project the team will repeat the Norming stage.
D The addition of the new team member will cause the team to enter the Forming stage.

People - Task 3 - Support Team Performance
According to Tuckman's 5-stage model of group development, anytime a new member joins the team, the process starts anew with the Forming stage. PMBOK Guide Sixth Edition (2017) PMI/PMI/9.4 Develop Team/p. 338


Question: 19 (   Incorrect - You answered: B )
A company has a goal of increasing customer satisfaction within 4 months. A project is initiated to meet this goal. The project manager needs to identify best practices. What should the project manager utilize to accomplish this?
A Benchmarking
B Focus groups
C Facilitation
D Affinity diagram

Process - Task 7 - Manage Quality
Benchmarking involves comparing actual or planned products, processes, and practices to those of comparable organizations to identify best practices, generate ideas for improvement, and provide a basis for measuring performance. PMBOK Guide Sixth Edition (2017) PMI/PMI/8.1.2.2 Data Gathering/Benchmarking/p. 281


Question: 25 (   Incorrect - You answered: B )
Which of the following best describes Level 3 conflict?
A Individuals are more focused on winning than resolving the problem.
B Individuals take sides and are not focused on resolving the issue.
C Individuals view the conflict as a win or lose situation. One party or group wants to harm the other.
D Individuals are focused on sharing information and solving problems.

People - Task 1 - Manage Conflict
Option A is correct. When at conflict Level 3 - Contest, winning becomes more important than resolving the issue at hand. Over generalizations are made and individuals focus on blaming one another. Coaching Agile Teams (2010) Addison-Wesley Signature Series/Cohn/Figure 9-1


Question: 27 (   Incorrect - You answered: A )
During a project that is 75% complete you realize team members are starting to become complacent with the collection of information and timeliness of reports. The burndown chart shows that you will most likely be a few story points shy of finishing all 86 as projected. How should you proceed?
A Counsel them about the importance of finishing within scope, cost, and schedule
B Inform team members of the importance of finishing strong
C Conduct a review of the team charter with the team and verify the integrity of the datA D Remind team members of their responsibilities and the importance of being professional and then document it on the risk report
People - Task 6 - Build a Team
Complacency can be found on any team especially towards the end of a project. Reminding the team of the importance alone does nothing to fix complacency. PMBOK Guide Sixth Edition (2017) PMI/PMI/9.1.3.2 Team Charter/pp. 319-32


Question: 28 (   Incorrect - You answered: A )
A project manager needs to ensure that all data security requirements are covered during a data warehouse development project's execution stage. Each of the databases created during different project phases will have a specific data security policy to comply with governmental data security laws. How should the project manager plan to meet these requirements?
A Plan a database development specification, then regularly check to ensure the developer aligns with the specification.
B Arrange for review of the data security status on a quarterly basis, and recommend remedial steps if noncompliance is found.
C Tell the database developer to submit documentation of data security items and the steps they take to correct items that do not meet specifications.
D Add a quality assurance specialist resource to the project team, who will be responsible for monitoring the data security quality of the project.

Business Environment - Task 1 - Manage Compliance
The project review is the best opportunity to formally review compliance. These reviews should be scheduled quarterly or at significant milestones. PMBOK Guide Sixth Edition (2017) 8. Project Quality Management /Tailoring Considerations/p. 276. PMBOK Guide Sixth Edition (2017) PMI/PMI/8. Project Quality Management/8.3.1.6 Enterprise Environmental Factors/p. 301


Question: 29 (   Incorrect - You answered: C )
A project has the following characteristics: -A quality management plan is in place. -The quality management plan states that project deliverables must be reviewed, at a minimum, 1.5 weeks before the deadline. -Four deliverables have missed this quality requirement. What is an appropriate step for the project manager to take?
A Use a cause-and-effect diagram for root cause analysis.
B Modify the quality management plan to conform to project practices.
C Request the project to undergo an internal audit.
D Reach out to the project sponsor for their input.

Process - Task 7 - Manage Quality
By understanding the root cause of the issue, the project manager may avoid this type of problem later on in this and other projects. PMBOK Guide Sixth Edition (2017) PMI/PMI/8.2.2.3 Decision Making/p. 293


Question: 31 (   Incorrect - You answered: A )
Your team is 50% done with the creation of your bank application. You have been using an adaptive methodology and have a prioritized backlog. The team wants to improve their performance on cost objectives. What is the best way to do this?
A Collect lessons learneD B Conduct a retrospective
C Review project artifacts
D Review the team charter

People - Task 3 - Support Team Performance
A retrospective is used to identify what the team can improve during the upcoming sprint. Collecting lessons learned will document what went wrong, but it is planning improvements for the next iteration of work. The Agile Practice Guide (2017) PMI/PMI/5.2.1 Retrospectives/p. 5


Question: 32 (   Incorrect - You answered: C )
A project is in the execution stage. Three necessary changes are brought to the attention of the team. The team members all have differing opinions regarding how to implement the changes. What should the project manager do?
A Confirm that all team members and stakeholders understand and follow the change management plan.
B Hold a meeting with the board and project sponsor to address the issue.
C Organize a meeting with team members to review the issues and request changes where needed.
D Ensure all requested changes are applied to the project and communicate directly with all team members.

Process - Task 10 - Manage Changes
The team and project manager must follow the documented and agreed upon change management processes. PMBOK Guide Sixth Edition (2017) PMI/PMI/4.2.3.1 Project Management Plan/Additional Components/p. 88; 3. The Role of The Project Manager/3.1 Overview/p. 51


Question: 33 (   Incorrect - You answered: A )
Agile is built upon communications, including feedback loops. Which of the following would least be considered a feedback loop?
A Pair programming
B Daily scrum meeting
C Sprint
D Retrospective

Process - Task 2 - Manage Communications
Option C is correct. Pair programming, the daily scrum meeting, and retrospectives are examples of feedback loops. Information is exchanged and allows changes to be made if required. The sprint is the timebox where the agreed-upon work to obtain the sprint goal is performed. The Agile Practice Guide (2017) PMI/PMI/A3.2 Scrum/p. 101


Question: 35 (   Incorrect - You answered: C )
After a project delay, the project manager determines that a change is needed to the product deliverables in order to ensure quality. The project manager takes the following steps: 1. A formal change request is issued. 2. The project manager communicates the change to all stakeholders. 3. The project manager receives feedback that the communications approach did not meet stakeholder expectations. What should the project manager do next?
A Use the communications management and stakeholder engagement plans.
B Ensure stakeholders' expectations are included in the project management plan by issuing a change request.
C Hold a meeting with the project sponsor to better understand stakeholders' expectations.
D Refer to the communications management plan and issue a status report.

Process - Task 14 - Establish Governance
These two plans help establish how communication will be managed and how the stakeholders will be engaged. PMBOK Guide Sixth Edition (2017) PMI/PMI/13.2.3.1 Project Management Plan/p. 518


Question: 38 (   Incorrect - You answered: B )
Project team members are spending a lot of time helping maintenance and operations staff with a recently commissioned project component. The project manager needs to validate that the component was signed off and ownership transferred. Which three documents should the project manager use for this decision?
A Final report, organizational process assets updates, and procurement agreements
B Procurement agreements, project document updates, and organizational process assets updates
C Procurement agreements, stakeholder engagement plan, and organizational process assets updates
D Final report, project document updates, and organizational process assets updates

Process - Task 17 - Manage Closure
When closing the project, the project manager reviews the project management plan to ensure that all project work is completed and that the project has met its objectives. The project documents are updated accordingly. PMBOK Guide Sixth Edition (2017) PMI/PMI/4.7.3 Close Project or Phase: Outputs/pp. 127-128


Question: 39 (   Incorrect - You answered: B )
Which of the following is considered the project vision?
A The reason the project is being performeD B Who benefits from this project and how
C How will the team work together
D When will the benefits be realizeD People - Task 10 - Build Shared Understanding

Option A is correct. Why the project is being performed is considered the vision. However, who benefits and how, may occasionally be considered part of the vision. The Agile Practice Guide (2017) PMI/PMI/5.1 Charter and the Project Team/p. 49


Question: 40 (   Incorrect - You answered: A )
When an organization is considering which project life cycle methodology is appropriate to use for a given project, a suitability filter spider web diagram or model is useful. Which of the following factors is not considered when using this type of model?
A Trust
B Team Size
C Sponsorship
D Criticality

Process - Task 14 - Establish Governance
The three broad factors include culture, project and team. Trust is one of the factors under culture, criticality is under project, and team size is under team. Sponsorship is important for supporting organizational change, but it is not part of the model. The Agile Practice Guide (2017) PMI/PMI/Figure X3-1. Model for Suitability Approach/p. 127


Question: 42 (   Incorrect - You answered: A )
When building an agile team, which concept should be least considered?
A Build projects around motivated individuals
B Provide a supportive environment
C Trust the team to meet the deadlines
D Ensure a strong project manager is assigned for decisions and coordination

People - Task 6 - Build a Team
Option D is correct. Agile coaches are not decision makers and do not coordinate the work. Instead, they are focused on building projects around motivated individuals, providing a supportive environment, and trusting the team to meet project deadlines. The Agile Practice Guide (2017) PMI/PMI/Figure 2-2. The Twelve Principles Behind the Agile Manifesto/Number 5/p. 9


Question: 46 (   Incorrect - You answered: A )
You have just been informed that you have been selected as the new project manager for the XYZ Widget project, which is on a very tight schedule. You recall that previous projects for this customer did not go as smoothly as planned with respect to both the budget and schedule so there is a lot of pressure to meet expectations on this new project. Which of the following should you do first?
A Schedule a kick-off meeting to begin brainstorming with your project team to review the schedule and to understand any issues or concerns that may immediately arise
B Ask for a copy of the project charter so you can review who the major stakeholders are, what the high level budget, schedule, and requirements are and verify your authority as the project manager
C Immediately begin identifying requirements in order to get a jump on the schedule since your primary concern is ensuring that the expectations of the project and the customer are fully met this time
D Review the project scope statement to ensure you fully understand all of the requirements and criteria for success and then schedule a meeting to begin identifying stakeholders

Process - Task 9 - Integrate Planning
A project is not officially authorized until the project charter has been created, so no other activities should be started until it has been created. Since you have already been identified as the new project manager, the project charter has already been created. The scope statement would not be created until after you have defined all of the requirements. PMBOK Guide Sixth Edition (2017) PMI/PMI/4.1.3.1 Project Charter/p. 81


Question: 48 (   Incorrect - You answered: A )
You are a project manager producing several identical components for an aerospace project. You are supposed to be producing 2 units per month worth $250,000 per unit. After 3 months you have only produced an average of 1.2 units per month. You use a formula to determine what the difference is between what you planned to do and what you actually got done. What is the formula you used?
A Schedule Performance Index (SPI)
B Cost Variance (CV)
C Schedule Variance (SV)
D Variance at completion (VAC)

Process - Task 5 - Manage Budget and Resources
The


question is talking about calculating a schedule variance (SV), which is the difference between what you produced (Earned Value) and what you were supposed to complete (Planned Value). PMBOK Guide Sixth Edition (2017) PMI/PMI/7.4.2.2 Data Analysis/Earned Value Analysis/p. 261


Question: 49 (   Incorrect - You answered: C )
A project manager is working on a software development project. Two customers are repeatedly submitting new feature requests. The completed scope definition for the product's next version release has already been provided to stakeholders. What should the project manager do next?
A Ask to meet with the product manager and discuss reducing the number of new requests.
B Meet with the sponsor immediately to discuss project boundaries.
C Meet face-to-face with stakeholders to set expectations.
D Assess the scope management plan and iterate it through the scope definition process.

Process - Task 8 - Manage Scope
The scope management plan is needed to help control the scope of the project. PMBOK Guide Sixth Edition (2017) PMI/PMI/5.6 Control Scope/p. 167


Question: 50 (   Incorrect - You answered: D )
A project is in the development stage. During this stage, there will be sensitive client data to handle. The compliance manager raises an issue of project non-compliance. What is the first document the project manager should review to check what current items are of concern?
A Statement of Work (SOW)
B Issue log
C Business case
D Risk register

Process - Task 15 - Manage Issues
After a new issue is raised, the issue log should be reviewed prior to taking action. PMBOK Guide Sixth Edition (2017) PMI/PMI/4.3.3.3 Issue Log/p. 96


Question: 55 (   Incorrect - You answered: B )
You are collecting requirements from all stakeholders during a planning meeting when stakeholders start having conflicting requirements. During the meeting tensions began to rise and people become disruptive to the meeting. The project manager decided to end the meeting earlier than scheduled to maintain relationships. The meeting was rescheduled for the next business day. What is the best way to proceed?
A Conduct a brainstorming session and establish ground rules
B Establish ground rules and begin discussions again
C Establish ground rules and use the Monte Carlo technique to collect requirements silently
D Establish ground rules, then use an affinity diagram to collect requirements followed by discrete voting applications

People - Task 10 - Build Shared Understanding
Establishing ground rules is a good practice, but without enforcement they are useless. Brainstorming could lead to the same results even with ground rules. Monte Carlo is a software application that calculates probability. An affinity diagram can be used as a silent information gathering technique that can be used with silent voting to prioritize requirements. PMBOK Guide Sixth Edition (2017) PMI/PMI/5.2.2.5 Data Representation/Affinity Diagrams/p. 144


Question: 59 (   Incorrect - You answered: A )
Which of the following would be considered agile's highest priority?
A Simplicity
B Satisfying the customer
C Working software
D Welcoming changing requirements

Process - Task 1 - Deliver Business Value
Option B is correct. The first principle outlined in the Agile Manifesto states the highest priority is to satisfy the customer through early and continuous delivery of valuable software. While answers A, C, and D are each important agile principles, they are not the highest priority. The Agile Practice Guide (2017) PMI/PMI/Figure 2-2. Twelve Principles Behind the Agile Manifesto/p. 9


Question: 60 (   Incorrect - You answered: C )
Which of the following skills will best help agile team members adapt and respond well to changes in product direction and technical changes?
A Emotional intelligence
B Technical skills
C Project management discipline
D Business acumen

People - Task 14 - Emotional Intelligence
All team members should work to exhibit initiative, integrity, emotional intelligence, honesty, collaboration, humility and willingness to communicate in various ways so that the team can work well together. These skills will increase the likelihood of team success. The Agile Practice Guide (2017) PMI/PMI/4.2.1 Servant Leader Responsibilities/Interpersonal Skills Versus Technical Skills/p. 36


Question: 61 (   Incorrect - You answered: D )
A major problem with your organizational structure is that when the project is finished, the team often has no other work to do and must be let go. Your talking to a friend about joining their company, and really like the sound to the collaboration between their project and functional managers. What types of organization structure does this refer to? 1 - Balanced Matrix 2 - Weak Matrix 3 - Functional 4 - Project-oriented 5 - Adaptive
A 4 and 5
B 1 and 4
C 2 and 3
D 1 and 3

Process - Task 13 - Determine Methodology
In a project-oriented (sometimes called projectized or composite/hybrid) organizational structure the project team reports to only one boss and is tasked with working solely on the one project. One major problem with this type of structure is what to do with the team members when the project is completed. One way this is handled is to terminate the employment of all team members. With balanced matrix organizations functional and project managers have shared authority and much collaborate in order to be effective. PMBOK Guide Sixth Edition (2017) PMI/PMI/2.4.4 Organizational Structure Types/pp. 45-49


Question: 62 (   Incorrect - You answered: B )
Developing an accurate project schedule is an important part of the planning process. You have used the Critical Path Method to ensure that you identify the critical path within your schedule network. Which of the following statements is true?
A The project schedule is often a graphical representation showing activities, start and finish dates and is used to show what has actually happened with regards to the scheduled work
B The project schedule is often a graphical representation showing the approved activities, start and finish dates and is used to compare what has actually happeneD C The project schedule is always a Gantt Chart generated from a computer program
D The project schedule is generated by a computer

Process - Task 6 - Manage Schedule
The project schedule is often a graphical representation showing activities, start and finish dates and is used to show what has actually happened with regards to the scheduled work. The baseline is described in Answer B. Answers C and D are there as distractions, as we can build a schedule with the use of software. PMBOK Guide Sixth Edition (2017) PMI/PMI/6.5.3.2 Project Schedule/p. 218


Question: 65 (   Incorrect - You answered: C )
Who is responsible for orchestrating and integrating all planning activities for an agile project?
A Project sponsor
B Project team
C Project manager
D Customers/end/users

Process - Task 9 - Integrate Planning
Agile teams are self managing, and thus make all planning decisions. PMBOK Guide Sixth Edition (2017) PMI/PMI/4. Project Integration Management/Considerations for Agile and Adaptive Environments/p. 74


Question: 66 (   Incorrect - You answered: C )
A project is 7 months into execution. The project manager determines that the cost performance index (CPI) is .80. According to a trend analysis, the CPI has a downward trend. What is the next step that the project manager should take?
A Issue a change request for cost re-baselining.
B Ask for additional resources.
C Crash the project schedule.
D Utilize the management reserve.

Process - Task 5 - Manage Budget and Resources
Since the project is over budget and the trend analysis show that will continue, the best course of action is to re-baseline the cost of the project and manage to that. PMBOK Guide Sixth Edition (2017) PMI/PMI/7.3.3.1 Cost Baseline/p. 254


Question: 71 (   Incorrect - You answered: A )
A project manager is faced with two team members who have a conflicting view of how the work on the project should be done. The project manager sits down with the two team members and calmly discusses the options and benefits of each method. At the end of the meeting, they come up with a solution that both agree to. This is an example of what?
A Compromise
B Forcing
C Collaborating
D Withdrawal

People - Task 1 - Manage Conflict
This is an example of collaborating, also known as problem solving. With collaborating you discuss all options and work through the problem. With compromise you meet in the middle without much real discussion. PMBOK Guide Sixth Edition (2017) PMI/PMI/9.5.2.1 Interpersonal and Team Skills/Conflict Management/pp. 348-349


Question: 74 (   Incorrect - You answered: A )
Which of the following is not considered a servant leader responsibility?
A Educating stakeholders on the benefits of servant leadership and the benefits of agile
B Creating the project development approach and processes
C Providing coaching, mentoring, encouragement and support
D Assisting with technical project management activities

People - Task 5 - Ensure Team is TraineD Option B is correct. Servant leadership does not encompass creating the project development approach or processes. However, a few of the responsibilities of a servant leader are: (1) educating stakeholders on the benefits of agile; (2) provide coaching, mentoring, and support; and (3) assisting by performing the technical aspects of project management. The Agile Practice Guide (2017) PMI/PMI/4.2.1.4 Consider These Servant Leadership Responsibilities/p. 36


Question: 79 (   Incorrect - You answered: B )
During the design phase of a construction project, two team members do not agree with an estimating technique used for cost. The situation was not resolved and has escalated into a bigger problem that is beginning to impact project objectives. How could this problem have been avoided?
A The project manager should have documented the problem on the issue log
B The project manager should have documented this on the risk register
C The project manager should have escalated the problem to the sponsor for resolution
D The project manager should have submitted a change request to update the cost management plan

Process - Task 15 - Manage Issues
Since this situation indicates something has already happened - it is an issue and not a risk. The issue log will help the project manager effectively track and manage issues, ensuring that they are investigated and resolved. The risk register is for events that pose a threat to the project, but have not yet occurred, and the team proactively attempts to manage them. PMBOK Guide Sixth Edition (2017) PMI/PMI/4.3.3.3 Issue Log/p. 96


Question: 81 (   Incorrect - You answered: C )
You are the project manager for a large pharmaceutical company that recently partnered with another organization that reduces packaging costs for your organization under the auspice of a cost-reimbursable contract. After a risk workshop meeting, you find out two team members do not agree on a proposed solution for a risk to cost. You decide to let them come to a resolution on their own, but you document it on the issue log. What conflict management technique did you implement?
A Direct/Force
B Retreat/AvoiD C Compromise/Reconcile
D Withdraw/AvoiD People - Task 1 - Manage Conflict

Withdraw/Avoid is retreating from the conflict. The project manager is allowing the team members to resolve the issue themselves. By putting it on the issue log they are ensuring they will follow up on the conflict to make sure it is resolved. PMBOK Guide Sixth Edition (2017) PMI/PMI/9.5.2.1 Interpersonal and Team Skills/Conflict Management/pp. 348-349


Question: 82 (   Incorrect - You answered: C )
A project manager is uncertain about the duration of a new product development project and consults several groups of subject matter experts (SMEs). They advise that the fastest development could possibly be finished is in 8 days. However, they have also identified some risks that could make the duration up to 32 days. Realistically, using standard development methods, the project should take 14 days. The team agrees that this final estimate is the most likely to occur and should be weighted by 4x accordingly. What is the estimated development duration for the new product?
A 12
B 16
C 18
D 2Process - Task 5 - Manage Budget and Resources

Using the Program Evaluation and Review Technique (PERT) method of three-point estimating, the formula is (Optimistic + (4 X Most Likely) + Pessimistic)/6 = (8 + (4*14) + 32)/6 = 16 days. PMBOK Guide Sixth Edition (2017) PMI/PMI/7.2.2.5 Three-Point Estimating/p. 245


Question: 87 (   Incorrect - You answered: B )
You are a project manager in the Information Technology department. Your company is new to agile concepts, and while most of your department is familiar with and on board with agile, most of the business units are not. Since key stakeholders will now become part of agile teams, you realize that you will need to mentor and coach them during sprints to help "sell" them on the benefits of agile to help keep them properly engaged. Which of the following would not be a typical benefit of using agile?
A Improved quality from more frequent reviews
B Requirements are allowed to change to better match business needs on a rolling basis
C Greater accountability and productivity of empowered teams
D Increased focus on business value based on prioritization of requirements

People - Task 13 - Mentor Stakeholders
While a self organizing empowered team is a crucial part of agile, this is one of the areas that predictive management often struggles with due to a lack of trust or feeling of not being involved the same way as before. Each of the other elements directly ties to business value and can usually be accepted more quickly. The Agile Practice Guide (2017) PMI/PMI/3.1 Characteristics of Project Life Cycles/pp. 18-19


Question: 88 (   Incorrect - You answered: D )
In agile, what is the most important reason to build, test, and review small increments?
A It evaluates and delivers continuous benefits and value
B It reduces future testing of the work product at the time of release
C It promotes relationship building between the agile team and business people
D It reduces issues and risk

Business Environment - Task 2 - Evaluate/ Deliver Benefits
Option A is correct. By building, testing, and reviewing small increments, business value is evaluated and delivered continuously. The first agile principle is about delivering business value early and continuously. The Agile Practice Guide (2017) PMI/PMI/2.2 The Agile Manifesto and Mindset/p. 8; 2.4 Uncertainty, Risk, and Life Cycle Selection/p. 16


Question: 91 (   Incorrect - You answered: B )
You are managing the implementation of new accounting software at your company. Two of your stakeholders have a disagreement as to when to do the kickoff meeting. One wants to do it before planning begins and the other wants to do it at the end of planning. One stakeholder is senior to the other, however, and so she insists that it will be done at the beginning, and closes the issue. This is best described as which of the following?
A Withdraw/AvoiD B Force/AvoiD C Force/Direct
D Withdraw/Direct

People - Task 1 - Manage Conflict
Here, the more senior stakeholder used forcing to get what she wanted. Forcing is a win-lose situation because one person gets everything he or she wants, and the other person gets none of what he or she wants. PMBOK Guide Sixth Edition (2017) PMI/PMI/9.5.2.1 Interpersonal and Team Skills/Conflict Management/pp. 348-349


Question: 92 (   Incorrect - You answered: B )
Today you sign into your teams platform to get up to speed on what the Asia-Pacific team has been up to since you signed off last night to enjoy an evening with the family. As you are scrolling through the conversation string you notice that a few comments came up that seem like one of your team members has taken offense to one of the comments left by one of the North American team members from yesterday. Which of Maslow's hierarchy of needs involves the need for friends, family and affiliation? Also, what is the level just below that?
A Social, Safety
B Social, Esteem
C Cultural, Social
D Cultural, Safety

People - Task 3 - Support Team Performance
The rung on Maslow's pyramid that is marked by an individual's need for friends, family, and affiliation is the Social level. The level just below that is Safety. The five levels in order from bottom to top are physiological, safety, social, esteem and self-actualization; cultural is not part of Maslow's pyramid. Project Manager's Portable Handbook, 3rd Ed (2010) /5. Project Leadership /5.7 Motivating the Project Team /5.7.2 Maslow /Figure 5-8. Maslow's Order of Priority of Human Needs


Question: 93 (   Incorrect - You answered: C )
Where are requirements captured and documented in agile projects?
A Sprint backlog
B Scope statement
C Requirements traceability matrix
D Product backlog

Process - Task 8 - Manage Scope
A product backlog contains all requirements in the form of user stories. A sprint backlog is a refinement of the collection of user stories selected for a specific iteration or sprint. Scope statement and requirements traceability matrix are more suitable for predictive projects. PMBOK Guide Sixth Edition (2017) PMI/PMI/5 Project Scope Management/Key Concepts/p. 131; Considerations for Agile and Adaptive Environments/p. 133


Question: 94 (   Incorrect - You answered: D )
When negotiating contracts with customers involving agile projects, a collaborative approach is recommended, since it emphasizes win-win between the buyer and seller vs. win-lose arrangements. Which of the following is not a characteristic of a collaborative approach?
A Emphasizing value delivereD B Single document contract
C Graduated time and materials
D Fixed price increments

People - Task 8 - Negotiate Agreements
A multi-tiered contract structure provides for a master agreement to cover fixed items such as warranties and remedies, and including other elements that are more subject to change in other documents (e.g., schedule of services). The Agile Practice Guide (2017) PMI/PMI/6.3 Procurement and Contracts/p. 77


Question: 96 (   Incorrect - You answered: B )
Who is responsible for approving the project management plan?
A Project manager and stakeholders
B Project manager and sponsor
C Project manager, sponsor and key stakeholders
D Sponsor only

Process - Task 9 - Integrate Planning
The project management plan is the master plan from which a predictive project will be executed. It is the responsibility of all key parties (project manager, sponsor, and key stakeholders) to approve the project management plan. PMBOK Guide Sixth Edition (2017) PMI/PMI/1.2.6.3 Project Charter and Project Management Plan/p. 34; 1.2.6.4 Project Success Measures/p. 34


Question: 98 (   Incorrect - You answered: A )
You are an agile coach in an organization that is starting to implement agile. What can be done to ease the transition to agile while beginning to satisfy certain aspects of the organization's current project management governance model?
A Use agile friendly reports and metrics to report project progress
B Educate your project management office on the benefits of agile
C You must change the current project governance model before implementing agile
D Alter your project reporting to fit governance expectations

Process - Task 14 - Establish Governance
Option D is correct. As an agile coach, you could alter your agile friendly information (burn up or burn down charts) to the required format (for example, a Gantt chart). Additionally, you could use story points, burn rate, and actual costs to provide earned value metrics. PMBOK Guide Sixth Edition (2017) PMI/PMI/1.2.6.4 Project Success Measures/p. 34


Question: 108 (   Incorrect - You answered: A )
What are the primary benefit of the sprint review meeting? 1 - The analysis of what the team did well, and could be improved 2 - Elicit feedback on the work that has been completed 3 - Updating the sprint backlog 4 - The evaluation and delivery of project value 5 - Meeting daily to discuss the team's impediments
A 1 and 3
B 2 and 3
C 4 and 5
D 2 and 4

Business Environment - Task 2 - Evaluate/ Deliver Benefits
Option D is correct. The sprint review meeting focuses on demonstrating and delivering working software from the prior sprint that meets the acceptance criteria defined by the product owner. The Agile Practice Guide (2017) PMI/PMI/5.2.5 Demonstrations/Reviews/p. 55


Question: 109 (   Incorrect - You answered: D )
Review the following project characteristics: -The project is in its initiation stage. -Due to lack of funding, the project gets terminated. -The project manager must close the project. What is the first action the project manager should take?
A Rely on the communications management plan to properly inform all stakeholders.
B Examine the organization's project closure guidelines.
C Determine the potential impact of terminating the project by performing a risk analysis.
D Close all project procurement processes.

Process - Task 17 - Manage Closure
Project closure guidelines or requirements will be contained in the organization's procedures. PMBOK Guide Sixth Edition (2017) PMI/PMI/2.3.1 Organizational process Assets/p. 41


Question: 111 (   Incorrect - You answered: B )
A large project includes functional groups in four countries. It is close to completion, so the project manager must prepare the closeout documents. How should the project manager obtain appropriate signoff on the acceptance of project deliverables?
A The project sponsor should be asked to sign off.
B The steering committee should be asked to sign off.
C The director of the project manager's business unit should be asked to sign off.
D The four managers from the four countries should be asked to sign off.

Process - Task 14 - Establish Governance
Since the sponsor provided the resources for the project, it is their responsibility to officially sign off on the project deliverables. PMBOK Guide Sixth Edition (2017) PMI/PMI/4.7.1.4 Accepted Deliverables/p. 124


Question: 112 (   Incorrect - You answered: B )
Your project team does not understand the fundamentals of project management. You feel this has the potential to harm your project. You decide to put together a half-day training session to teach project management basics. Which of the following have you achieved by having this training?
A Develop your project team
B Avoid Risk
C Acquire Resources
D Analyze Risk

People - Task 5 - Ensure Team is TraineD This is an example of developing your project team because you are enhancing the team's overall competencies and skills. Note that B is incorrect because avoiding a risk means taking it off the table completely, but project failures could still occur notwithstanding the training. PMBOK Guide Sixth Edition (2017) PMI/PMI/9.4 Develop Team/p. 336


Question: 116 (   Incorrect - You answered: D )
Team performance can be enhanced when agile practitioners apply emotional intelligence. Which of the following is not a component of emotional intelligence?
A Self awareness
B Relationship management
C Social evaluation
D Self management

People - Task 14 - Emotional Intelligence
Option C is correct. Emotional intelligence is comprised of four components; (1) self-awareness; (2) self-management (3) social-awareness; and (4) relationship management. Emotional intelligence is a social skill used to improve self and team performance. PMBOK Guide Sixth Edition (2017) PMI/PMI/9 Project Resource Management/Trends and Emerging Practices in Project Resource Management/Emotional Intelligence/p. 31


Question: 117 (   Incorrect - You answered: D )
While communicating an issue with the project with one of the stakeholders, they begin crossing their arms and becoming very defensive with you. You require their support on this project and they are known to be passive aggressive. How should you proceed?
A They concur with your thoughts on the issue and they are frustrated with the engineers for causing this problem
B They think you are blaming them for the issue and you should adjust your approach immediately and focus on how much they have done for the project
C Document the stakeholders response on the lessons learned register
D Change the topic of the conversation and try again tomorrow

People - Task 14 - Emotional Intelligence
Their body language changed during the conversation, this implies something stated began to bother the stakeholder. By focusing on the good things they have done it will make it easier to listen to how they can improve. Documenting it on the lessons learned register will not solve the issue currently at hand. Changing the topic will not solve the current issue and the issue still was not addressed. PMBOK Guide Sixth Edition (2017) PMI/PMI/10.2.2.3 Communications Skills/Non-Verbal/p. 384


Question: 121 (   Incorrect - You answered: D )
Your company is new to agile concepts, and all people involved with projects have recently completed agile training. You have just been assigned as a project manager for your first agile project to develop a web front end for internal employees to register for health insurance and other benefits for the upcoming calendar year, with an expected delivery of 3 weeks. The project life cycle methodologies that are currently available are all based on a predictive/waterfall approach. What is the best course of action?
A Ask the project management office to develop a new agile methodology that will work for the new project
B Work with the project management office to develop a new or streamline an existing methodology that will work for the project
C Bring in outside agile consultants to help manage the project
D Create the initial work assignments for your resources since you are on a tight timeline, then work with the group to find the best way to get to agile as you move forward.

People - Task 7 - Remove Obstacles
This is the hallmark of servant leadership. The Agile Practice Guide (2017) PMI/PMI/4.2.1 Servant Leader Responsibilities/p. 34


Question: 122 (   Incorrect - You answered: C )
After six iterations, significant variations have occurred to the project scope and schedule. These are due to the customer's technology regulations and security policies, which are regularly reviewed. The project manager wants to suggest a new approach to the next iteration to avoid possible delays. What should the project manager do first?
A Rank the importance of each improvement item, then implement actions identified during the last retrospective.
B Engage in a cost-benefit analysis that can help predict the profits that could be realized through the use of new technology for the next phase.
C Research new technology trends and management tools that have been successful on similar projects.
D Use a backlog refinement meeting and include the customer's change requests in the discussion.

Process - Task 16 - Knowledge Transfer
The retrospective is used to review lessons learned and suggest corrective actions for the next iterations. Essential Scrum - A Practical Guide to the Most Popular Agile Process (2012), Chapter 22. Sprint Retrospective /Overview. The Agile Practice Guide (2017) PMI/PMI/5.2.1. Retrospectives/pp. 50-51


Question: 123 (   Incorrect - You answered: B )
Which of the following is not an example of collaboration within an agile team?
A Storming
B Mobbing
C Swarming
D Pairing

People - Task 1 - Manage Conflict
Storming is a stage in the Tuckman model. The others are all part of a collaborative, agile team. The Agile Practice Guide (2017) PMI/PMI/4.3.1 Agile Teams/p. 39


Question: 125 (   Incorrect - You answered: C )
You are the project manager at a healthcare services company. Two of your team members are having a disagreement that they cannot resolve, and it is beginning to affect the entire project team's performance. Which technique should you use if your main goal is to develop a solution that all agree to?
A Collaborating
B Avoiding
C Smoothing
D Forcing

People - Task 9 - Collaborate with Stakeholders
Collaboration involves hearing different opinions and thoughtfully working through the problems to find solutions that are agreeable to all. Avoiding just puts the problem off until later. Smoothing is where you make everyone feel good, but dodge the real issue. PMBOK Guide Sixth Edition (2017) PMI/PMI/9.5.2.1 Interpersonal and Team Skills/Conflict Management/pp. 348-349


Question: 128 (   Incorrect - You answered: A )
When working in a highly regulated industry, what can be done to ensure any changes in regulatory compliance are met during an agile project?
A Evaluate regulatory compliance during the daily scrum
B Continuously refine the product backlog
C Use affinity estimating
D Refactoring

Business Environment - Task 1 - Manage Compliance
Option B is correct. Requirements for new and/or changing regulatory compliance will be incorporated into the product backlog as they arise if the product owner refines the backlog regularly. The Agile Practice Guide (2017) PMI/PMI/5.2.3 Backlog Refinement/p. 52


Question: 130 (   Incorrect - You answered: D )
A project manager realizes that sponsor expectations are not being met, specifically regarding project deliverables. To address this issue, which action should the project manager take?
A Create a risk register.
B Develop a stakeholder engagement plan.
C Develop a communications management plan.
D Create a work breakdown structure (WBS).

Process - Task 4 - Engage Stakeholders
The stakeholder engagement plan is a component of the project management plan that identifies the strategies and actions required to promote the productive involvement of stakeholders in decision making and execution. PMBOK Guide Sixth Edition (2017) PMI/PMI/13.2.3.1 Stakeholder Engagement Plan/p. 522


Question: 132 (   Incorrect - You answered: B )
Your company has won a contract to oversee the expansion of a major highway in your area. The project had been discussed for several years, and due to constant changes in the political climate, the controversial project was hard to get off the ground. The project has drawn criticism from nearby residential landowners, environmental groups, and taxpayers who deem it too expensive. Moreover, some environmental studies suggest that the subsurface in some areas may be inadequate to sustain the road, which may result in expensive detours being built around those spots. You are working on your risk management plan. What is the best way to proceed?
A Set aside reserves to cover the costs of these risks and others that have been identifieD B Conduct a feasibility study to determine whether the project should go forward under these circumstances
C Document each category of risk in the Risk Management Plan to help ensure all risks are properly identifieD D Ask the sponsor to assign an independent project team to assess and handle project risk
Process - Task 3 - Evaluate Scope Changes
The Risk Management Plan should contain risk categories, which will help you systematically identify risks as you move through risk planning. A risk breakdown structure may be used to show risk categories, and this would be part of the Risk Management Plan. Remember, since you are working on the Risk Management Plan, you have not yet documented specific risks, as suggested in choice A. PMBOK Guide Sixth Edition (2017) PMI/PMI/11.1.3.1 Risk Management Plan/pp. 405-408


Question: 133 (   Incorrect - You answered: B )
You have two key stakeholders on your project that are always arguing. If one makes a suggestion, the other disagrees even if it's a good idea. Which technique might help them be more receptive to the other person's ideas when the ideas are being reviewed in a group discussion?
A Facilitation
B Focus groups
C Brainstorming
D Team building exercises

People - Task 9 - Collaborate with Stakeholders
The best way to handle this situation would be to utilize Interpersonal and Team Skills, specifically facilitation. PMBOK Guide Sixth Edition (2017) PMI/PMI/4.1.2.3 Interpersonal and Team Skills/Facilitation/p. 8


Question: 134 (   Incorrect - You answered: A )
Your team is on sprint four (4) of an estimated ten (10) sprints for the creation of a sports game for a major corporation. A stakeholder has been holding on to information that is required to complete each sprint and it is starting to delay the progress of work and completion of sprints. As the product owner, how should you proceed?
A Refer to the Stakeholder Engagement Plan and Communication Management Plan then engage the person appropriately
B Report the issue to the team facilitator and have them speak with the stakeholder
C Have the sponsor engage the stakeholder
D Document this in the risk register and brainstorm potential responses

People - Task 7 - Remove Obstacles
The product owner is responsible for guiding the direction of the product and managing the backlog. The team facilitator is responsible for removing impediments for team members. The team facilitator is also known as scrum master, project team lead, team coach, and project manager. The Agile Practice Guide (2017) PMI/PMI/Table 4-2. Agile Team Roles/p. 41


Question: 135 (   Incorrect - You answered: C )
In a strong matrix organization the role of the project manager is best described as?
A Expediter
B Full-time
C Coordinator
D Part-time

People - Task 4 - Empower Team
In a balanced matrix, strong matrix, and project-oriented organizational structure, the role of the project manager is full time. According to the PMBOK Guide, in a functional organization, the role of the project manager is part-time and is more like a project coordinator or project expediter. PMBOK Guide Sixth Edition (2017) PMI/PMI/2.4.4.2 Factors in Organizational Structure Selection/Table 2-1. Influences of Organizational Structures on Projects/p. 47


Question: 138 (   Incorrect - You answered: B )
A medium-sized company is expanding into a new market. However, the company does not have previous experience in that market. A project manager needs to collect requirements. Which tool or technique should the project manager use?
A Prototypes
B Expert judgment
C Product analysis
D Create requirements traceability matrix

Process - Task 8 - Manage Scope
Prototyping is a method of obtaining early feedback on requirements by providing a model of the expected product before actually building it. PMBOK Guide Sixth Edition (2017) PMI/PMI/5.2.2.8 Prototypes/p. 147


Question: 139 (   Incorrect - You answered: D )
A customer indicates that they would like to add functionality. Although this request is made during the execution stage of this waterfall project, the project manager finds that the cost for the addition would be small. The additional functionality, if successful, would increase the opportunity for profit. What should the project manager do next?
A Agree that the functionality would offer a great opportunity, but the proposed addition is out of scope.
B Schedule a meeting with the company's management team, and present the customer's request for additional functionality as a good opportunity.
C Move forward, using the project's management reserve to add the requested functionality.
D Add it to the product backlog and prioritize it against the other components of the project.

Process - Task 1 - Deliver Business Value
By building a small increment and then testing and reviewing it, the team can add value in terms of new functionalities or additional awarded projects. An important factor for a successful implementation and value capture is the response time of the team. PMBOK Guide Sixth Edition (2017) PMI/PMI/1.2.4.1 Project and Development Life Cycles/p. 19


Question: 142 (   Incorrect - You answered: A )
You know a small portion of your project work will have to be performed by contract workers from an external organization, however, you cannot currently create a precise statement of work for this procurement. Which type of contract would be best suited for this situation?
A Cost Plus Incentive Fee (CPIF)
B Fixed Price (FP)
C Cost Plus Percentage of Costs (CPPC)
D Time and Materials (T&M)

Process - Task 1 - Deliver Business Value
Time and materials (T&M) contracts are best used in cases where precise statements of work cannot be readily prescribed. They are most commonly used for staff augmentation, as indicated in the facts of this


question. You should consider using a not-to-exceed clause to help prevent runaway costs when using this contract type. PMBOK Guide Sixth Edition (2017) PMI/PMI/12.1.1.6 Organizational Process Assets/Contract Types/Time and Materials/p. 472


Question: 143 (   Incorrect - You answered: D )
A project has the following characteristics: -A functional manager is also a project stakeholder. -The functional manager has time constraints and delegates project responsibilities to someone else on the functional team. -The new stakeholder is not attending meetings. The project manager needs to engage this new stakeholder. What should the project manager do?
A Examine the project charter with the new stakeholder and assess their level of engagement.
B Present the project schedule and the specific, assigned tasks to the new stakeholder.
C Request the functional manager briefs this new stakeholder and ask that they send them to all relevant meetings.
D Ask the new stakeholder to pair with a more experienced stakeholder to learn responsibilities.

Process - Task 4 - Engage Stakeholders
The first version of the stakeholder engagement plan is developed after the initial stakeholder community has been identified by the Identify Stakeholder process. The stakeholder engagement plan is updated regularly to reflect changes to the stakeholder community. PMBOK Guide Sixth Edition (2017) PMI/PMI/13.2.3.1 Stakeholder Engagement Plan/p. 522


Question: 145 (   Incorrect - You answered: D )
While having lunch with a few friends, some of which are stakeholders in your project when the topic of the agile methodology comes up. One of them states they do not understand this methodology and they prefer the traditional way of doing things and others agree with this sentiment. Your project is using an incremental approach and this will have no impact on it. What would be your best response?
A Document this on the issue log for future projects
B Discuss with them how agile is best used for projects with a high-uncertainty of work and frequent change
C Tell them it is only used for software development projects and will never impact us
D Laugh it off so you don't offend them

People - Task 13 - Mentor Stakeholders
Take advantage of this opportunity to mentor them on the benefits of agile and the types of projects that would benefit the most from it. An issue log is a document for ongoing projects. The agile approach is not limited to software development, but can be used by teachers, doctors, lawyers, and problem solving engineers. The Agile Practice Guide (2017) PMI/PMI/1.0 Introduction/Agile Based Learning/p. 2


Question: 150 (   Incorrect - You answered: B )
What is the purpose of a RACI matrix?
A Displays the relationship between work packages and team members
B Defines communication channels
C Authorizes work to begin
D Speeds up the project schedule

People - Task 6 - Build a Team
RACI stands for Responsible, Accountable, Consult, and Inform. It is used to identify roles, responsibilities and authority on a responsibility assignment matrix (RAM). The purpose of a RACI matrix is to show the relationship between work packages (or activities) and team members. PMBOK Guide Sixth Edition (2017) PMI/PMI/9.1.2.2 Data Representation/Responsibility Assignment Matrix/p. 317


Question: 151 (   Incorrect - You answered: C )
Which of the following eXtreme programming (XP) practices best assists with changes affecting project scope?
A On-site customer
B Planning games
C Simple design
D Coding standards

Business Environment - Task 3 - Evaluate Scope Changes
Option A is correct. The on-site customer practice includes embedding a customer (or customer representative) into the team itself. Therefore, if external circumstances, (market conditions, competition, financial considerations, etc...) present themselves, the agile team can act quickly and decisively. The Agile Practice Guide (2017) PMI/PMI/A3.3 Extreme Programming/Table A3-2. The Practices of eXtreme Programming/Organizational/p. 102


Question: 160 (   Incorrect - You answered: A )
What can be used to improve the accuracy and reliability of release planning?
A Consensus building
B Affinity estimating
C Sprint planning meeting
D Velocity

Process - Task 17 - Manage Closure
Option D is correct. By understanding a teams current velocity (the number of story points a team can finish per sprint based on past performance) and knowing the remaining story points required for the release, a release date can be forecasted more accurately. The Agile Practice Guide (2017) PMI/PMI/5.4.1 Agile Teams Measure Results/pp. 61-64


Question: 165 (   Incorrect - You answered: A )
A new product is released. When a customer identifies performance issues with this product, the project manager realizes that cost of quality (COQ) should have been used to estimate this cost. Which category of COQ should the project manager have used?
A Prevention costs
B External failure costs
C Appraisal costs
D Cost-benefit analysis

Process - Task 7 - Manage Quality
External failure costs are those failures found by the customer. PMBOK Guide Sixth Edition (2017) PMI/PMI/8.1.2.3 Data Analysis/Cost of Quality/p. 282


Question: 167 (   Incorrect - You answered: B )
Which of the following is not a contracting technique an agile coach can utilize to help create a win-win, collaborative relationship with a vendor?
A Multi-tiered structure
B Emphasize value deliver
C Dynamic cancelation option
D Not-to-exceed time and materials

People - Task 8 - Negotiate Agreements
Option C is correct. Answers A, B, and D are all valid contracting techniques an agile coach would use while negotiating with a vendor. Dynamic cancelation option is not a valid contracting technique. The Agile Practice Guide (2017) PMI/PMI/6.3 Procurement and Contract/pp. 77-78


Question: 168 (   Incorrect - You answered: C )
A software vendor is behind on a key project deliverable. There is a 21% buffer in the budget for cost overruns. The project manager needs to mitigate the issue. Which action should the project manager take next?
A Evaluate alternative software vendors that can help project deliverables despite resource constraints.
B Remove the current vendor and have the new vendor send a contract.
C Ask the vendor to meet to discuss options for helping them get caught up.
D Accept the cost overrun and update the project schedule.

Process - Task 11 - Manage Procurement
The first step is analysis and evaluation of alternate options. After that, specific and appropriate action can be taken. PMBOK Guide Sixth Edition (2017) PMI/PMI/12.3 Control Procurements/p. 492


Question: 169 (   Incorrect - You answered: D )
A planned task for a project does not get completed due to an issue that appeared three days ago but did not get resolved. The project manager wants to prevent this type of situation in the future. What should the project manager do?
A During the retrospective, examine the issue.
B In the demo, address the issue.
C During the next iteration planning meeting, discuss the issue.
D In the next daily standup meeting, review the issue.

Process - Task 6 - Manage Schedule
The retrospective allows issues with the execution approach to be identified and discussed in a timely fashion along with ideas for improvements. Retrospectives are a primary tool to manage project knowledge and develop the team through discussions of what is working well and team-based problem solving. PMBOK Guide Sixth Edition (2017) PMI/PMI/6.6 Control Schedule/p. 224; The Agile Practice Guide (2017) PMI/PMI/5.2.1 Retrospectives/pp. 50-51


Question: 171 (   Incorrect - You answered: D )
Jeff is a senior engineer on your project. During a progress review meeting you come across a potentially disastrous risk to your project. Jeff tells the team that he has a fix to avoid the risk and ensure everything goes smoothly. Everyone trusts Jeff's advice, because he has a lot of experience handling these types of technical risks. What kind of power does Jeff have?
A Formal
B Expert
C Legitimate
D Referent

People - Task 4 - Empower Team
There are 14 types or sources of power. Some of these include formal/legitimate, expert, reward, referent, and punishment/penalty. Jeff derives his power from his vast amount of experience, thus he is using Expert power. Positional (aka Formal /Legitimate) power is derived from your position or title. Referent power is derived from your charisma or how well others like you. PMBOK Guide Sixth Edition (2017) PMI/PMI/3.4.4.3 Politics, Power, and Getting Things Done/pp. 62-63


Question: 172 (   Incorrect - You answered: D )
A project manager has been asked to conduct a risk analysis that is based on a high-level scope. As part of the analysis, the project manager must use expert judgment to prepare a document. Which document-based action is being performed?
A Creating the project charter
B Preparing the scope statement document
C Creating a project management plan
D Documenting the risk management plan

Process - Task 1 - Deliver Business Value
Expert judgment is one of the tools and techniques for developing the project charter. PMBOK Guide Sixth Edition (2017) PMI/PMI/4.2.1 Develop Project Charter/p. 79


Question: 175 (   Incorrect - You answered: B )
A customer is not satisfied with the delivered product, saying that it was not what they expected. The project manager is surprised, because the agile development team delivered the product several iterations early. What is one way that the project manager could have avoided this result?
A Required team sign off for each of the constant changes to the requirements
B Set aside more resources for product testing after changes are made
C Made sure that the customer was aware of the value of demos
D Ensured that the team fully participated in developing the project scope

Process - Task 16 - Knowledge Transfer
The customer was not engaged enough in the project. The iteration review is the best mechanism for the team to demonstrate working software and for the customer to give feedback to ensure that their expectations are met. PMBOK Guide Sixth Edition (2017) PMI/PMI/13.3 Manage Stakeholder Engagement/p. 524. The Agile Practice Guide (2017) PMI/PMI/5.2.5 Demonstrations and Reviews/p. 55


Question: 176 (   Incorrect - You answered: A )
Although a previously identified technical issue has been resolved, the project manager is warned that the same issue is likely to occur on similar projects. Which of the following should be part of the first step in responding to the warning? 1 - Update the issue log 2 - Inform the PMO 3 - Create a risk report 4 - A communication with the project sponsor 5 - Review the lessons learned register
A 3 and 5
B 2 and 3
C 1 and 4
D 2 and 5

Process - Task 16 - Knowledge Transfer
The PMO is responsible for sharing information between concurrent projects and the lessons learned register is archived in the lessons learned repository at the end of each project. This can be reviewed by project managers in future projects to avoid past project issues. Updating the issue logs for future project cannot be done, as these projects are in the future. PMBOK Guide Sixth Edition (2017) PMI/PMI/4.4.3.1 Lessons Learned Register/p. 104


Question: 177 (   Incorrect - You answered: B )
You are managing a large software project for a bank and are about 50% done with the work when a new stakeholder is identified. It turns out the stakeholder will be highly impacted by the new software project. You have a tight deadline and the requirements are already firmly set. What should you do?
A Ignore the stakeholder
B Meet with the stakeholder to inform her of your project
C Meet with the stakeholder to gather her requirements
D Find someone to blame for not identifying the stakeholder earlier

People - Task 9 - Collaborate with Stakeholders
The correct course of action would be to meet with the stakeholder and document her requirements. If time permits and the change is approved, you may still be able to incorporate her requirements. At the very least, you have engaged the stakeholder and attempted to satisfy her needs. Simply informing the stakeholder of your project and not gathering her requirements, as suggested in choice B, would not be appropriate either. PMBOK Guide Sixth Edition (2017) PMI/PMI/13.0 Project Stakeholder Management/Key Concepts for Project Stakeholder Management/pp. 504-505


Question: 178 (   Incorrect - You answered: B )
Which of the following best describes your ability to understand and/or perceive the emotions of others?
A Social awareness
B Emotional intelligence
C Social skill
D Coaching

People - Task 14 - Emotional Intelligence
Option A is correct. Social awareness is one of four emotional intelligence components (self awareness, self management, social awareness, and relationship management). Social awareness is a person's ability to understand and/or perceive what others are feeling or thinking. This is performed by observing and listening to those around you. PMBOK Guide Sixth Edition (2017) PMI/PMI/9.5.2.1 Interpersonal and Team Skills/Emotional Intelligence/p. 349


Question: 179 (   Incorrect - You answered: D )
For organizations that are new to agile concepts and are working to adopt and utilize them, which of the following would be a potential roadblock to successfully achieving this?
A Executive management's willingness to change.
B Employees are specialized contributors.
C Talent management maturity and capabilities.
D Focus on short-term budgeting and metrics versus long-term goals.

Business Environment - Task 4 - Support Org Change
Organizations that have change-friendly characteristics of answers A, C and D will easily support agile principals. While answer B (indicating I-shaped people) may be a concept that we shy away from, it has nothing to do with organizations adopting agile approaches. The Agile Practice Guide (2017) PMI/PMI/6.1.2 Readiness for Change/pp. 73-74


Question: 2 (   Incorrect - You answered: D )
As the technical lead on a company-wide software implementation project, Gene realizes his team has completed all the necessary exit criteria for the deliverables in


question at this point of the project. He contacted you, the project manager, to determine if it would be an appropriate time to conduct his closure activities. When should administrative closure be carried out?
A At the completion of each phase of the project, and at the completion of the project itself.
B At the completion of each process group
C At the completion of each deliverable
D At the completion of each procurement contract on the project

Process - Task 17 - Manage Closure
Administrative closure activities should be carried out at the completion of each phase of a project and at the conclusion of the project itself. Performing this process at each phase will help determine the feasibility of moving forward with the next phase.


Question: 4 (   Incorrect - You answered: C )
You are a team facilitator, and one of your team members, Jane, has approached you with a concerning issue. Another team member, Dave, is not following certain guidelines and is violating some ground rules agreed to in the Team Charter. What should you do first?
A Reprimand the team member who is violating these ground rules.
B Refer to the Team Charter to determine what to do in this situation.
C Talk to the team member violating the ground rules and try to understand their perspective.
D Set up a meeting with Jane and Dave to collaboratively try and resolve the problem.

People - Task 12 - Ground Rules
The keyword is the word first. Ground rules and what to do if one is not following ground rules are documented in the Team Charter. While options c and d are definitely good approaches since you are using empathy and collaboration, respectively, the exact steps on how to resolve such issues will be documented in the Team Charter, and that is what you should refer to first. Reprimanding a team member is usually not the best option for PMP


questions. PMI Authorized PMP Exam Prep Student Guide/ Page 15


Question: 5 (   Incorrect - You answered: C )
You are consolidating all the cost estimates you received from the Project Management Team members. You realize the estimates are coming back in different formats. Some team members are using outdated forms and documents. What is least likely to be the cause of this?
A Poor configuration management
B Plans were updated, but all team members did not receive the updates
C Poor communication management
D Poor risk management processes

Process - Task 12 - Manage Artifacts
Poor risk management at this point is the least likely cause. If the plan has been updated configuration management would ensure the most up to date documents are being used and each team member would receive them. Communication management would ensure all changes were properly communicated.


Question: 8 (   Incorrect - You answered: D )
Which of the following is not a benefit of a virtual project team calendar?
A Plan timeboxed meetings
B Improve visibility of goals and activity status
C Identify when team members are available for work
D Project visibility among the team and stakeholders

People - Task 11 - Virtual Teams
Answer C refers to a resource calendar, which is maintained for each individual resource.


Question: 10 (   Incorrect - You answered: C )
You and your team are brain storming multiple variables that may impact the efficiency of your processes. What would be the best tool to complete this?
A Design of Experiment
B Histogram
C Pareto chart
D Tornado analysis

Process - Task 7 - Manage Quality
The design of experiments is the process of setting up series of tests in order to determine what outputs result from different combinations of inputs (variables). The design of experiments can be used to understand business processes and determine improvement strategies, by demonstrating in advance which factors can be changed to produce improvements in quality. Histograms are vertical bar charts that show the graphical representation of numerical data. Tornado diagrams are a special type of bar chart used in sensitivity analysis for comparing the relative importance the variables.


Question: 11 (   Incorrect - You answered: A )
The team is presently compiling a project team directory. In which process is the team most likely engaged?
A Resource planning
B Develop Team
C Acquire Resources
D Plan Resource Management

People - Task 5 - Ensure Team is TraineD A project team directory lists all the project team members and their contact information. This means that the team has been assembled, or is currently being assembled, making C correct.


Question: 15 (   Incorrect - You answered: B )
Managing communications effectively in an Agile setting when the sprint team is geographically disbursed is essential. Which of the following techniques address this issue the least?
A Remote paring
B Fishbowl window
C Document sharing
D Project reporting

Process - Task 2 - Manage Communications
Includes all but project reporting. While it is a communications technique to manage communications. And it may be performed for Agile projects; it refers to the collection and distribution of work performance reports for stakeholders, and does not address overall team communication effectiveness. Agile Practice Guide: Page 46.


Question: 16 (   Incorrect - You answered: D )
Your agile team has been asked by senior management to produce and distribute a weekly performance report on the status of the overall project. Which of the following is not typically included on this report?
A Actual task start and finish dates
B Completed and accepted user stories
C Product Backlog progress
D Comparison of user stories delivered and sprint/iteration plans

People - Task 8 - Negotiate Agreements
For agile projects, the focus is on user story delivery to the end users /customers, so answers B, C and D are appropriate inclusions on the performance report. Actual task start and finish dates are typically included on predictive or hybrid project progress reports, since they more often rely on traditional project schedules that track the critical path.


Question: 20 (   Incorrect - You answered: D )
You are working with an agile team to develop a new contract management system for your company. Each deliverable must go through a series of tests and inspections to meet the standards and quality levels documented in the Quality Management Plan. In terms of the Cost of Quality model, what would be the BEST description of testing and inspecting?
A Cost of Conformance
B Appraisal Costs
C Cost of Nonconformance
D Prevention Costs

Process - Task 7 - Manage Quality
Appraisal costs include testing, destructive testing loss, and inspections.


Question: 22 (   Incorrect - You answered: A )
A client brings a project manager into a project during the execution phase. The project manager review the project scope for cost estimating purposes and notices some deliverables were missed in the work breakdown structure (WBS). Which step should the manager take next?
A Verify with the stakeholders to see if these missed deliverables should be added.
B Ask that the project management office (PMO) approve additional funds for this work.
C Include the work in the WBS, per the 100% rule, and recalculate the total project cost.
D Determine whether these deliverables are necessary by verifying with experts in the field.

Process - Task 8 - Manage Scope
The WBS is a hierarchical decomposition of the total scope of work to be carried out by the project team to accomplish the project objectives and create the required deliverables. The WBS organizes and defines the total scope of the project and represents the work specified in the current approved project scope statement. This must always reflect the complete and accurate scope of work. PMBOK Guide Sixth Edition (2017) PMI/PMI/5.4.2.2/161


Question: 24 (   Incorrect - You answered: D )
You are taking measurements and plotting the results on a control chart. What process are you performing?
A Manage quality
B Control Quality
C Plan quality
D Monitor and control project work

Process - Task 7 - Manage Quality
Remember that Control Quality is when you do the actual testing and measurement. Manage quality is when you audit the process to make sure you are following the correct quality policies and procedures. Be sure to familiarize yourself with the types of charts and graphs you would use in both of these processes - sometimes that is your only clue.


Question: 25 (   Incorrect - You answered: C )
You are managing a project to improve water filtration at a water plant. You are in the planning phase when an unexpected change has arisen from a regulatory agency. This change requires additional information to be sent to their office. What is the first thing you should do to handle this situation?
A Add the regulatory requirement to your requirements documentation
B Meet with the project team to analyze how the change would impact other project objectives
C Add the regulatory agency to your stakeholder register
D Add this as a risk to your risk register

Business Environment - Task 1 - Manage Compliance
You are in the planning portion of the project, so you would add this as a regulatory requirement within your requirements documentation. While adding the regulatory agency to your stakeholder register and adding any new risks to the risk register is a good idea, you want to add the requirement to your requirements documentation as soon as possible. Choice B would imply you have already completed planning and would need to process a change request. When you are planning, there is no need for a change request. The change process is needed when baselines and the Project Management Plan have been approved, which is not the case here.


Question: 28 (   Incorrect - You answered: C )
You are the project manager of the Everest Consulting Project. The project has a budget of $290,000 and is expected to last three years. The project is now ten percent complete and on schedule. The project is currently $10,000 over budget. What is the BAC?
A $280,00B $290,00C $300,00D $870,00Process - Task 5 - Manage Budget and Resources
The BAC is the budget at completion, which is given to you in the


question.


Question: 31 (   Incorrect - You answered: B )
A shared drive is created for your Agile team for team members to share documentation and to ensure all the latest versions of project documentation is available to stakeholders. What communication method does this describe?
A Formal Written
B Interactive
C Pull
D Informal Written

Process - Task 2 - Manage Communications
This is a Pull Communication since the documents are saved in a central repository where people can retrieve it when they need to. Note that Formal Written and Informal Written are not communication methods.


Question: 32 (   Incorrect - You answered: A )
A project is started based on the approved scope. As the project design is being implemented, a team member says that the product will not meet the requirements in certain situations. Correcting the issue will not only cause an increase in scope and costs, but the project will also miss the deadline. The project sponsors do not have additional funding to support the project. Considering this information, what should the project manager do?
A Conduct a risk analysis and update the project sponsor.
B Enact the Perform Integrated Change Control process.
C Resolve the issue to satisfy the customer.
D Contact the customer and negotiate for risk acceptance.

Process - Task 10 - Manage Changes
Perform Integrated Change Control is the process of reviewing all change requests; approving changes and managing changes to deliverables, project documents, and the project management plan; and communicating the decisions. PMBOK Guide Sixth Edition (2017) PMI/PMI/4.6/113


Question: 36 (   Incorrect - You answered: A )
You are managing a software design project which is segmented into various phases to allow for closer control and to provide periodic reviews of the project to ensure its continued feasibility. Which of the following characteristics of the project team would you not expect to change throughout the various phases of this project?
A Technical abilities
B Team Charter
C Headcount
D Amount of overtime workeD People - Task 4 - Empower Team

A, C and D are all items that you would expect to change throughout various phases of the project. The team charter, however, should generally be uniform and apply consistently throughout the project.


Question: 38 (   Incorrect - You answered: C )
As a team facilitator, you are trying to understand which level of conflict your team is at. You are hearing conversations such as, that is nonsense and you are completely wrong. Which of the five levels of conflict would this best describe?
A Problem Solving
B Disagreement
C Contest
D World War

People - Task 1 - Manage Conflict
This describes a Disagreement since team members are being opinionated. Problem Solving is where team members are working together collaboratively (here they are being combative). Contest would be where other team members start taking sides (there is no evidence of that here). World War is where teams are not talking to one another. https://www.pmi.org/learning/library/coaching-agile-project-teams-navigate-conflict-676


Question: 45 (   Incorrect - You answered: C )
You are a newly hired project manager who is taking over a project. You have been informed by your sponsor the project is not in compliance, because the last project manager did not keep the stakeholders happy. The project is in the middle of execution without a clear plan on how to proceed. As the project manager, what is the first thing you should do?
A Re-baseline the project so you have a fresh start and follow the project management plan
B Conduct a review of communication documents and the requirements traceability matrix
C Conduct an assessment of stakeholder needs and project requirements
D Identify stakeholders and analyze their needs and requirements per the stakeholder engagement plan

Process - Task 4 - Engage Stakeholders
You may be inclined to select answer C in this situation. However, since you are taking over the project, the best answer is to identify stakeholders and determine their needs and requirements. The


question states the stakeholders were not happy, so the first thing is to identify who they are, determine what their needs and requirements are and analyze the current stakeholder engagement plan. Maintaining stakeholder satisfaction throughout the lifecycle is required to successfully implement a project.


Question: 47 (   Incorrect - You answered: A )
One of your team members recently received a reward for their performance on scope, cost, and schedule. The team member seemed unenthusiastic about the accolade. Additionally, the team has an issue with the recognition of team members. What most likely is the issue?
A The reward system in place has no value for the team member
B The team member is bashful, and the reward has embarrassed them
C The team member did nothing with scope or cost and it truly is a team endeavor
D It was a team effort and the team should have been recognizeD People - Task 2 - Lead a Team

When faced with a choice between rewarding the entire team and giving out a reward to an individual, assuming everything else is equal, the team reward is the best choice. The reason is simple. When the team is rewarded for working together, they will continue to work together to receive additional rewards.


Question: 49 (   Incorrect - You answered: B )
You are the project manager for constructing a state-of-the-art self-service hotel with the goal of customer independence to never having to wait in line for check-in and check-out, assign and change rooms, new reservations, order and obtain food and beverage, and any housekeeping services. Your project team wants to ensure all of the stakeholders' needs are included in the hotel. Which of the following would not be used for this validation?
A A test of each of the physical areas as the hotel is being constructeD B A virtual video prototype showing the customer moving through the different requirements
C A formal walk through of all of the requirements with all of the key stakeholders
D A work flow process set up in SharePoint to progress through the key stakeholders for the review and approval of the detailed requirements

Process - Task 7 - Manage Quality
Answer A is verification that the end deliverables satisfy the agreed upon requirements and specifications - are we building the product right? While B, C, and D are different techniques of scope validation that the stakeholders' needs are met - are we building the right product?


Question: 51 (   Incorrect - You answered: A )
As a project manager, you realize that stakeholder engagement is critical to overall project success. You have done a great job including your entire team in identifying stakeholders and are confident your prioritization criteria has been effective. As stakeholders engage with the project, the overall effectiveness of the stakeholder engagement strategy can be evaluated. As the project manager, this means you should do which of the following?
A Publish the stakeholder engagement assessment matrix
B Publish the stakeholder cube
C Update the project management plan
D Distribute the stakeholder engagement plan

Process - Task 4 - Engage Stakeholders
If there are changes to the stakeholder engagement strategies, as an output of the Monitor Stakeholder Engagement process, affected sections of the project management plan are updated because of these changes. These updates could be with any of the plans in the project management plan. Since the stakeholders seem to be engaging well, the only impact would be updates to other elements of the project management plan. Publishing or distributing stakeholder information such as the plan or the stakeholder cube is rarely, if ever, done.


Question: 56 (   Incorrect - You answered: B )
You are the project manager and find that a systems engineer on your project is over-allocated. You can not delay your project due to resource constraints. Which of the following statements is true?
A You should use resource requirements updates to determine availability and smooth out resource overallocation.
B You should use crashing to resource-level the critical path tasks.
C You should use resource leveling to smooth out resource assignments.
D You should use fast tracking to resource-level the critical path tasks.

Process - Task 6 - Manage Schedule
Resource leveling attempts to smooth out resource assignments by splitting tasks, assigning under-allocated team members to more tasks, or delaying the start of tasks to match team members' availability.


Question: 60 (   Incorrect - You answered: A )
The expected value for your project duration estimate is 627 days, and the most likely duration estimate is 575. The standard deviation is 14. Which of the following statements is true?
A A 95 percent confidence factor would make this project duration between 547 days and 603 days.
B The project duration, given a 95 percent confidence factor, is between 613 days and 641 days.
C The project duration, given a 99.7 percent confidence factor, is between 585 days and 669 days.
D A 68 percent confidence factor would make this project duration between 547 days and 603 days.

Process - Task 6 - Manage Schedule
Do not be fooled by the mention of the most likely duration. We want the full duration estimate which was already calculated for us (O + 4(M) + P)/6. Next, assess the responses individually: A 99.7 percent confidence level is achieved by adding and subtracting three standard deviations to the expected value. Standard deviation is already provided to us (14 days). 3x14 = (+/-42 days). Therefore, the range of dates for this


question is 585 days to 669 days or 627 +/-42 days.


Question: 61 (   Incorrect - You answered: C )
You are the project manager on an agile team that has completed six out of a planned eight 2-week sprints that will make up the first release of your company's new automated project resource request system. Since there is only a month left to go before the system will be available for all end users in the company, you will need an Implementation/Rollout Plan. Which of the following items is typically not included in such a plan?
A Training plan for end users
B Product demonstration schedule
C List of all end users by department and job function
D Strategies for handling resistance to adoption and utilization of the new system

Business Environment - Task 4 - Support Org Change
How resistance to adoption and utilization will be handled is included in a (Organizational) Change Management Plan. This plan differs from the Change Management Plan that is a component of the Project Management Plan, which addresses how project or product change requests will be handled throughout the project life cycle. An Organizational Change Management Plan addresses how the organization deals with sponsorship, cultural, capacity, maturity and resistance issues. This is the people side of change which many project implementations trigger--especially when they dramatically change the way the company conducts its business, and people have to change their behaviors accordingly.


Question: 62 (   Incorrect - You answered: B )
You are managing a project that is running behind schedule. You change the relationship of several scheduled activities from finish-to-start to start-to-start in order to complete the project within the deadline. This is an example of which of the following and what impact does it have on project risk?
A Fast-tracking and will increase risk
B Crashing and will increase risk
C Adjusting leads and lags and will decrease risk
D Resource leveling and will have no effect on risk

Process - Task 6 - Manage Schedule
Fast-tracking is when you take activities or project phases that would otherwise be done sequentially and do them in parallel. This speeds up delivery of the project, but will also increase risk. Crashing is when you add extra resources to critical path activities. Adjusting leads or lags does not alter the relationship of activities, but applies a delay or head-start to activities. Resource leveling is the process of smoothing out resource utilization to avoid spikes in resource demand.


Question: 68 (   Incorrect - You answered: C )
You are managing an agile project in a functional organizational structure. To whom are the team members most loyal?
A Project manager
B Functional department
C Project sponsor
D End user or customer

Business Environment - Task 4 - Support Org Change
The team members in a functional organizational structure report to a functional manager and will thus be most loyal to their functional department.


Question: 69 (   Incorrect - You answered: B )
When should the Control Resources process be performed?
A Iteratively
B On an 'as-needed' basis
C Continuously
D As recommended by the HR Management Plan

Process - Task 5 - Manage Budget and Resources
The Control Resources process should be performed continuously in all project phases and throughout the project life cycle.


Question: 71 (   Incorrect - You answered: D )
You are a project manager with a start up company. Changes come often and you need to control the scope and meet customer needs. Perform integrated change control is primarily concerned with which of the following?
A Reviewing and approving change requests
B The creation of change requests
C Integrating deliverables from different functional specialties on the project
D Establishing a change control board that oversees the overall changes on the project

Process - Task 10 - Manage Changes
Perform Integrated Change Control is the process of reviewing all change requests, approving changes and managing changes to the deliverables, organizational process assets, project documents and the project management plan. The creation of change requests is done in other processes and becomes an input to the Perform Integrated Change Control process.


Question: 76 (   Incorrect - You answered: A )
You are leading a large infrastructure project for the IT department at your organization. You have completed all your planning and are beginning to start your build phase. You have multiple stakeholders who have a lot of influence in your organization and on this project - as this is a high visibility, highly political project involving millions of dollars. There was a similar project several years ago, but not the same scale as this one. Which statement best represents your next steps?
A Look to lessons learned from the previous project
B Perform a Stakeholder Analysis
C Outsource the project
D Perform a Stakeholder Engagement Assessment

People - Task 9 - Collaborate with Stakeholders
This


question appears to have large stakeholder involvement. Since you already know you have multiple highly-influential stakeholders, you will already have completed the Stakeholder Analysis (either via the grid, cube or Salience model). So, B is not the correct answer. However, since stakeholder engagement can increase or decrease the support for this project, a Stakeholder Engagement Assessment would be the best tool to use as your next step. This will determine the engagement level of the key stakeholders, and develop strategies on how to get the correct level of engagement to support the project. While lessons learned is important and can help with managing the stakeholders for this project, the engagement is the best thing to do next.


Question: 78 (   Incorrect - You answered: D )
You are actively managing your project. Your team is fairly new and virtual. You have begun to observe some team problems and believe that you are in the Storming stage of organizational development. Project Performance Appraisals are used in order to achieve which of the following?
A Correct the project manager's mistakes
B Provide answers for upper levels of management
C Assess the progress and performance of a team member
D Appraise the project costs and cost trends of the project

People - Task 3 - Support Team Performance
Project Performance Appraisals are used to gauge the performance of individual team members, and are therefore a tool of Manage Team.


Question: 84 (   Incorrect - You answered: D )
If your project encountered more defects than expected, missed many of the scheduled milestones due to greater than expected wait times for activity hand-offs, and went over budget because of many redundant processes, which of the following could most help improve this environment?
A Lean Six SigmA B Stakeholder identification
C Resource optimization
D WBS

Process - Task 7 - Manage Quality
Lean Six Sigma is a quality improvement initiative and could improve not only the quality of the project's management but also the quality of the project's product.


Question: 85 (   Incorrect - You answered: B )
Phil is meeting with his sponsor to discuss an upcoming project. He leaves the meeting without a good understanding of his role and level of authority. He is confused and is being asked to start project execution immediately to meet the auto show requirements. What should Phil do next?
A Meet with the project team to create a Responsibility Assignment Matrix so everyone understands their role.
B Meet with the sponsor and ask to review the team charter.
C Meet with the sponsor and ask to discuss the project charter.
D Proceed with all the planning processes so the project can be completed on time.

People - Task 10 - Build Shared Understanding
The project charter will identify the project manager, how they will work with the sponsor and team, preassigned resources and other project-related requirements. Therefore, Choice C is the most correct answer. A responsibility assignment matrix (Choice A) will not resolve the problem of a lack of understanding regarding his role Phil has. The team charter addresses team framework and ground rules (Choice B). He can not proceed with planning (Choice D) until he understands his role.


Question: 86 (   Incorrect - You answered: D )
During Planning, you and your team performed risk analysis for your new product. One of the risks you identified, and for which you devised a mitigation, was the possibility of a shortage of a precious metal your product requires. That shortage has now occurred, and you must implement the risk response. You realize that in order to perform the response, you will need project documents that include the risk register, risk report and the:
A Overall risk report
B Lessons learned register
C Issue log
D Risk analysis matrix

Process - Task 12 - Manage Artifacts
While it may not seem like the obvious choice, the lessons learned register can be quite useful as the lessons learned in earlier phases can be applied in later phases. The issue log is an output of Direct and Manage Project Work, as well as a common document we find under 'Project documents updates' for various processes. Answer choices A and D do not exist. Watch out for made-up names that sound right. If you know your documents, you cannot get those wrong.


Question: 88 (   Incorrect - You answered: D )
You are the project manager at an IT company called Vote Right. Your project has been created with the intent of creating a new email voting system. At face value, the project seems straightforward but competing stakeholder factions are attempting to undermine the project by creating a system that benefits their faction over the other. You have determined that the project's environment is best handled with an Agile project methodology. In a discussion with the customer, you mention how it is quite possible that your team is able to deliver the value needed before meeting the entirety of the project scope stated in the contract. Nathan, head of customer relations and sales, tells you that there is an option in the contract that allows the customer to buy the remainder of the contract with a cancelation fee. What Option is Nathan talking about?
A Dynamic Scope Option
B Early Cancelation Option
C Not to Exceed Option
D Early Value Management Option

People - Task 8 - Negotiate Agreements
If you answered Dynamic Scope Option you were close but the passage does not discuss a budget constraint, the main reason for the Dynamic Scope Option. See Agile Practice Guide p. 78.


Question: 89 (   Incorrect - You answered: D )
You are reviewing the actual costs spent to date as they relate to the costs which were budgeted, and have found that you exceeded the budgeted amounts in many areas. You take the next step to determine what is causing the variances, and how they may be addressed. Which of the following processes are you performing?
A Estimate Costs
B Control costs
C Determine budget
D Earned value management

Process - Task 5 - Manage Budget and Resources
Control Costs involves monitoring cost performance to detect cost variances from the budget and understand what is causing them. It is an ongoing process, and you will refer to the Cost Management Plan for guidance.


Question: 90 (   Incorrect - You answered: D )
You are the project manager at an IT company called Vote Right. Your project has been created with the intent of making a new email voting system. At face value, the project seems straightforward, except for two competing stakeholder needs and two nearly identical factions attempting to undermine the project by creating a system that benefits their faction over the other. You have determined that the project's environment is best handled with an Agile project methodology. In discussion with the customer, you mention how it is quite possible that your team can deliver the value need before meeting the entirety of the project scope stated in the contract. Nathan, head of customer relations and sales, tells you that there is an option in the contract that allows the customer to buy the remainder of the contract with a cancelation fee. What option is Nathan talking about?
A Dynamic Scope Option
B Early Cancelation Option
C Not to Exceed Option
D Early Value Management Option

People - Task 8 - Negotiate Agreements
Agile Practice Guide p. 78 If you answered Dynamic Scope Option you were close but the passage does not discuss a budget constraint the main reason for the Dynamic Scope Option


Question: 96 (   Incorrect - You answered: B )
You are the project manager for an agile Scrum project that is building a new high-tech missile guidance system for the military. Several agile teams are involved, so a Scrum of Scrums approach is being utilized. Several agile teams are subcontractors who are geographically distributed all over the country. What leadership style is most appropriate for this project?
A Servant leadership
B Directive leadership
C Managerial leadership
D Accommodating leadership

People - Task 2 - Lead a Team
Servant leadership is the standard for all agile projects, which encourages the self-definition, self-discovery, and self-awareness of team members by listening, coaching, and providing an environment which allows them to grow. Directive and accommodating leaderships are suggestive of conflict resolution techniques, which aren't appropriate for agile teams, since agile teams are self-managing. Managerial leadership is a made-up term.


Question: 97 (   Incorrect - You answered: B )
Activity A is worth $200, is 100% complete, should have been done on day 1, and actually cost $200. Activity B is worth $75, is 90% complete, should have been done on day 2, and actually cost $120 so far. Activity C is worth $200. It is 75% complete, should have been done on day 3, and has cost $175 so far. The total budget is $1000. What is the planned value at the end of day 2?
A $275.0B ($417.50)
C $495.0D ($275.00)
Process - Task 5 - Manage Budget and Resources
The planned value as of day two would be $275.00. This is generated by adding the planned value of Activities A and B, which should have been done by the end of day 2 on the project.


Question: 98 (   Incorrect - You answered: D )
The project sponsor has requested a description of the project's performance to date as it pertains to the amount of work completed vs. what had been planned to this point. Specifically, she wants to know the exact amount of shortfall/surplus of work accomplished relative to the schedule. Which calculation should you employ to provide the information requested?
A EV-PV
B EV/AC C EV/PV
D EV-AC Process - Task 14 - Establish Governance

The sponsor is asking for the schedule variance, which shows the amount of work performed relative to what had been planned at a given point in time. The formula for schedule variance is EV (Earned Value) - PV (Planned Value).


Question: 99 (   Incorrect - You answered: A )
You are a project manager and you are having lunch with your project sponsor. She is very involved with project management and holds a PMP certification. She starts to talk about an s-curve. Which of the following is displayed as an S curve?
A Funding requirements
B Cost performance baseline
C Critical path
D Schedule performance baseline

Process - Task 5 - Manage Budget and Resources
The cost performance baseline is displayed as an S curve because of the way project spending occurs. Spending begins slowly, picks up speed until the spending peak is reached, and then tapers off as the project closes.


Question: 100 (   Incorrect - You answered: D )
You call an emergency meeting of your project management team. Your project is to build a wastewater treatment plant in a remote area of the country. You have done your stakeholder analysis and created your communications plan. But a new group of stakeholders have surfaced in a neighboring town who are complaining that they do not know enough about it. Your best next step would be to do what?
A Note this in the issue log with a date for resolution
B Schedule a face-to-face meeting with stakeholders to address their concerns
C Notify the sponsor and let him deal with it
D Update the stakeholder engagement plan

People - Task 1 - Manage Conflict
This is a situation that must be dealt with immediately, and the most effective method is face-to-face whenever possible. It will likely be necessary to update the stakeholder engagement plan but this is not your first priority. PMBOK Guide philosophy is a direct approach in stakeholder relationships.


Question: 101 (   Incorrect - You answered: C )
You are the PM of a project developing a new mobile device application. What type of data analysis can best be used to determine resources needed at upcoming stages of the project?
A Alternatives Analysis
B Trend Analysis
C Cost-benefit Analysis
D Performance Reviews

Process - Task 5 - Manage Budget and Resources
The


question specifies that you are seeking to use Data Analysis to determine resources needed for upcoming stages of the project, which would indicate Trend Analysis. While the other answers are types of Data Analysis, they do not offer the same insight.


Question: 106 (   Incorrect - You answered: D )
What is the best approach for handling changes to contracts with sellers involving projects that utilize adaptive methods?
A Ensure all work is completely specified in the master agreement/contract.
B Place all adaptive work that may be subject to frequent changes into appendices or supplements.
C Use a Time and Materials contract for all adaptive work.
D For projects that utilize hybrid approaches, place all adaptive work into a separate agreement/contract.

Process - Task 11 - Manage Procurement
Since adaptive/Agile work by its very nature is subject to frequent changes, specify that work within appendices or supplements that can be more easily updated without having to change the overall master contract or services agreement. This applies to any contract type. Page 465, PMBOK Guide


Question: 107 (   Incorrect - You answered: B )
You are in the early stages of project planning and decide that a small number of prototype testers is an accurate enough description for the resources needed for a specific work package during the prototyping phase. Based on past experience with a similar project you assume that once the prototype is designed and functional, you'll need to bring in a specific number of experts to test it. Which of the following best describes the portion of the resource planning process this


question refers to?
A Resource Requirements
B Expert Judgment
C Resource Calendars
D Estimating schedule durations

Process - Task 5 - Manage Budget and Resources
Resource Requirements describe the type and quantity of resources needed to fulfill each element of the work package level of the WBS. In the early phases, the pool description can be high-level, while later in the project, more specifics are detailed regarding the exact number and required skills of the resources.


Question: 110 (   Incorrect - You answered: D )
You are the project manager for a large international project. The project is wrapping up and your client appears to be satisfied. That is good since this was a five year project with high visibility from your leadership team. You want to close out the project as quickly and efficiently as possible. Which of the following is not an input to the Close Project or Phase process?
A Project management plan
B Accepted deliverables
C Final product transition
D Organizational process assets

Process - Task 17 - Manage Closure
The inputs to the Close Project or Phase process are project management plan, accepted deliverables, and organizational process assets. Final product transition is the output of the this process, not an input.


Question: 114 (   Incorrect - You answered: C )
You will be going on an assignment overseas for six months and want to be sure that you will be able to manage communications on the project effectively. You are aware there are significant differences between the host country method of working and yours. You also know there are major differences between your team and the host company team on some of the technical solutions you need to provide. Interpersonal and team skills you will require include which of the following?
A Communication competence and conflict management
B Conflict management and cultural awareness
C Cultural awareness and communication competence
D Expert judgment and conflict management

People - Task 5 - Ensure Team is TraineD While all of these are important, only conflict management and cultural awareness both answer the


question but are also listed in the PMBOK Guide specifically as interpersonal and team skills.


Question: 116 (   Incorrect - You answered: B )
What is the most important agile project practice for the agile team?
A Retrospectives
B Daily stand-up meeting
C Earned value metrics
D Sprint planning meeting

Process - Task 1 - Deliver Business Value
Option A is correct. The Agile Practice Guide indicates that the most important practice for the agile team is the retrospective because it allows the team to learn about, improve and adapt its process. See page 50 of the Agile Practice Guide for more details.


Question: 117 (   Incorrect - You answered: C )
Your project involves installing a new human resources system. You've identified the risks associated with this project and are ready for the next step. What is the next step?
A You will evaluate the risks and assign probabilities and impacts using Qualitative Risk Analysis
B You will use the Delphi technique to confirm the risks you've detailed and identify others you may have misseD C You must evaluate the risks and assign probabilities and impacts using Quantitative Risk Analysis
D You will define the steps to take to respond to the risks and detail them in the risk response plan

Process - Task 3 - Manage Risks
Once you have identified the risk, the next step is to Perform Qualitative Risk Analysis. The Delphi technique is a tool and technique of the Risk Identification process, so answer B is not correct. Quantitative Risk Analysis comes after Qualitative Risk Analysis, so answer C is wrong. Determining the risk response strategies is the last step in the process, so choice D is wrong.


Question: 118 (   Incorrect - You answered: C )
Which of the following will best assist the agile coach ensure proper knowledge is being transferred to increase project continuity?
A Co-locate your agile team
B Utilize different resources throughout the project
C Document policies and procedures for future reference
D Allow your team to telecommute to improve morale

Process - Task 16 - Knowledge Transfer
Option A is correct. Colocation teams work together in one physical space. Colocation allows the team to collaborate face-to-face, which improves productivity. It also enables osmotic communication, which allows team members to reside in the same room and absorb relevant information.


Question: 120 (   Incorrect - You answered: D )
You are a project manager for an aerospace company. You manage a project that calls for the production of many special alloy screws which must adhere to very particular standards for use in the aerospace industry. Each screw is measured and weighed, and a notation is made to show value in relation to the mean you have established. What are you using and what is the primary purpose?
A Control Chart, which is a tool and technique of Plan Quality Management, used to track occurrences.
B Control Chart, which is a tool and technique of Control Quality, used to track repetitive activities or results.
C Check sheet, a tool and technique of Control Quality, used to organize facts in a manner that will facilitate the effective collection of useful data about a quality problem.
D Histogram, a tool and technique in Manage Quality, used to show a graphical representation of numerical data.

Process - Task 7 - Manage Quality
Control charts are used to track repetitive activities or results. Information discovered from a control chart can help determine the stability of a process and whether it would have a predictable performance.


Question: 122 (   Incorrect - You answered: A )
You are the project manager with a large staffing company and are leading the project to implement a new staffing and recruitment database. This is a functional organization and you have borrowed team members from various functional managers. Your team members have very limited project management experience. You need to have your team start to work together as soon as possible. Which of the following inputs to Develop Team would be most helpful?
A Resource management plan, Enterprise environmental factors, Organizational process assets
B Project team assignments, Resource management plan, Resource calendars
C Team performance assessments, Enterprise environmental factors, Organizational process assets
D Project team assignments, Enterprise environmental factors, Organizational process assets

People - Task 6 - Build a Team
Both answers A and B are included as inputs to the Develop Team process. However, the


question is asking which ones would be most helpful (to get the team to start working together as soon as possible.) So, the team assignments (which is a list of the team members themselves), resource calendars (which depicts when they are available) and the resource management plan (which tells us how to do team development) would all be helpful.


Question: 126 (   Incorrect - You answered: B )
For agile projects, the product owner defines the initial functionality or capabilities that make up a minimum business increment. Release planning determines how many sprints will be included in a release, and how many releases will be done for the project. Which of the following typically has the least impact on release planning?
A Availability of a set of features or capabilities.
B Organizational tolerance for changes.
C A time cadence for subsequent releases.
D The velocity of the agile team(s).

Business Environment - Task 2 - Evaluate/ Deliver Benefits
Agile team velocity determines how many user stories or story points the team can deliver within a time-boxed sprint/iteration.


Question: 128 (   Incorrect - You answered: A )
You are the Project Manager for ACME software company. Your current project is doing well, but you have many defects. You submitted a change request that recently came back approved. You have had several issues in the past with change requests not fulfilling their requirements. As the Project Manager, how should you proceed?
A Update the change log, implement changes, and monitor and control all changes
B Implement the change and hope it will be different this time
C Update change log and other documents, inform the stakeholders, and follow the new plan
D Conduct configuration management and direct project work

Process - Task 10 - Manage Changes
The


question is truly asking about the steps in change control. The


question states a change request recently came back approved. Do not be distracted by the scenario. Steps in Change Control Process are: 1) Prevent the root cause of changes, 2) Identify the change with documentation, 3) Evaluate the impact of the change, 4) Issue the change request to the CCB, 5) Perform Integrated Change Control (get CCB approval), 6) Update change request log and project documents to reflect the change, 7) Communicate the change (and impacts) to stakeholders and get buy-in, and 8) Direct and manage the project according to the new plan.


Question: 131 (   Incorrect - You answered: A )
You believe the original schedule baseline is no longer feasible in light of several delays you have encountered which were beyond your control. Which of the following must provide approval for your proposed modification of the schedule baseline?
A Sponsor
B Project Team
C Program manager
D Change control boarD Business Environment - Task 3 - Evaluate Scope Changes

The change control board must approve changes made to any project plans. While some projects may have change control systems in place, allowing the project manager to approve certain smaller changes herself, this scenario represents a change to a project baseline. It would have to be approved by the change control board.


Question: 133 (   Incorrect - You answered: A )
You are a project manger on a multi-year transportation project for the state. You are about two-thirds complete with the project and, so far, the project has progressed well. You continue to work with your stakeholders throughout the project and they have been engaged and helpful in championing your project, identifying issues and providing recommendations. However, recently, you have noticed new stakeholders appear, which you were not expecting and have not identified. This has created some tension on the team; team members are becoming concerned a requirement may have been missed. What should you do?
A Review your stakeholder engagement plan to ensure you are identifying and engaging stakeholders correctly.
B Refer to project documents such as the change log, issue log and requirements documentation.
C Review the communications management plan to determine if you have any gaps in your communicating with your stakeholders.
D Review your project management plan as it is your overall guide for how to manage your project.

People - Task 9 - Collaborate with Stakeholders
The problem is you have not identified all the stakeholders. It is unlikely any project documents will be an input for initial stakeholder identification. However, stakeholder identification occurs throughout the project. Once the project is initially planned, more documents become available and are used throughout the project. Project documents to be considered as inputs for Identifying Stakeholders include the change log, issue log and requirements documentation. Reviewing a plan will not necessarily directly address the issue of not identifying stakeholders throughout the project (Choices A, C and D).


Question: 134 (   Incorrect - You answered: D )
Which of the following project artifacts is unique to agile projects?
A Business Case
B Product Roadmap
C Project Charter
D Issues Log

Process - Task 12 - Manage Artifacts
A Product Roadmap shows the anticipated sequence of deliverables on an agile project over time. All other artifacts could be used for agile, predictive or hybrid projects.


Question: 136 (   Incorrect - You answered: B )
What is the best description of the purpose of the work breakdown structure (WBS)?
A The WBS allows the project manager to delegate responsibility of all of the project activities.
B The WBS is a narrative description of the work required for the project.
C The WBS organizes and defines the total scope of the project.
D The WBS is a statement of what will be made, how many units will be made, and when they will be made.

Process - Task 8 - Manage Scope
WBS is a deliverable-oriented hierarchical decomposition of the work to be executed by the project team to accomplish the project objectives and create the required deliverables.


Question: 139 (   Incorrect - You answered: C )
Who theorized that quality was a management issue 85% of the time and by the time things got down to the line employee it was too late?
A Kaizen
B Deming
C Pareto
D Crosby

Process - Task 7 - Manage Quality
W. Edwards Deming theorized that quality was a management issue 85% of the time and by the time things got down to the line employee it was too late. He is also the father of Total Quality Management (TQM). Kaizen is the Japanese word for continuous improvement. Pareto is a type of chart. Philip Crosby believed in conformance by design and zero defects.


Question: 142 (   Incorrect - You answered: B )
As a project manager, you realize that managing stakeholder expectations is an important priority. Which statement regarding project stakeholders is not correct?
A Negative stakeholders must be ignored if the project is to be brought to a successful completion in a timely manner.
B Stakeholders have varying levels of responsibility and authority when participating on a project and these can change over the project`s life cycle.
C Some key stakeholders include the project manager, performing organization, project team members, customer and sponsor.
D Stakeholder expectations may be difficult to manage because stakeholders often have conflicting objectives.

People - Task 2 - Lead a Team
Choice A is correct. Negative stakeholders are often overlooked by the project team at the risk of failing to bring the projects to a successful end. You should never ignore negative stakeholders.


Question: 144 (   Incorrect - You answered: D )
You are the project manager for a large OEM company. You are currently managing a project to create new components for a tablet. You have invested considerable resources in the planning and executing of the project. You want to ensure that you minimize any scope creep. All of the following are outputs of Control Scope except which of the following?
A Change requests
B Scope changes
C Project document updates
D Work performance information

Business Environment - Task 3 - Evaluate Scope Changes
The outputs of the Control Scope process are work performance information, organizational process assets updates, change requests, project management plan updates, and project documents updates. The change requests could result in scope changes, but they are not an output themselves.


Question: 148 (   Incorrect - You answered: A )
You are the project manager for a large food and beverage company. You are currently managing a project for organic, cold-pressured, non-GMO juice beverages. Outputs from the Estimate Activity Resources process include which of the following?
A PDM, Schedule Network Templates, Dependency Determination, Leads & Lags
B Activity List, Activity attributes, Milestone list
C Project Schedule Network Diagrams and Project document updates
D Resource Requirements, Resource Breakdown Structure, Project Document Updates

Process - Task 5 - Manage Budget and Resources
Outputs from the Estimate Activity Resources process include Resource Requirements, Resource Breakdown Structure and Project document updates


Question: 153 (   Incorrect - You answered: C )
Which of the following processes belong to the executing process group?
A Validate Scope
B Develop Team
C Control Quality
D Develop Schedule

People - Task 2 - Lead a Team
Develop team is part of the executing process group.


Question: 155 (   Incorrect - You answered: C )
You are an experienced project manager working in the pharmaceutical industry. You are leading a project for a cutting-edge medication which is revolutionary. You are monitoring the status of the project work to update the project budget and manage changes to the cost baseline. So far things appear to be progressing well, but you are starting to but concerned with work being done by a new vendor. Which output would you be most concerned with?
A Work performance information and cost forecasts
B Budget reserves and cost estimates
C Work performance reports and earned value management
D Cost estimates and aggregation

Process - Task 5 - Manage Budget and Resources
The process described is Control Costs and the outputs are documented in A. This is one of the more technical processes to understand for the PMP exam as it includes the earned value tools and techniques. Budget reserves are monitored during the Monitor Risks process. Earned value management is a technique and not an output. Cost aggregation is when you add all of your individual cost estimates together and is done to determine what the project budget will be.


Question: 157 (   Incorrect - You answered: C )
You are conducting risk management activities on your project. You are starting to develop risk responses to some of the higher priority risks. You have identified the potential for hurricane damage due to the fact you are building a new facility in a known hurricane zone during hurricane season. If a hurricane should occur, the damage to the building, and subsequent repairs, will push out your project end date quite substantially. You decide to move the location of the new facility to a different area that does not experience hurricanes at all. What type of risk response is this?
A Avoidance
B Exploiting
C Mitigation
D Transfer

Process - Task 3 - Manage Risks
Choice A is the correct answer since you are completely avoiding the risk by moving the facility to a different location which does not experience hurricanes. Choice B is incorrect because exploiting is a response for a positive risk (opportunity) - this is a threat. Mitigation (Choice C) would decrease the probability and/or impact. Transfer (Choice D) involves a contract or an insurance policy, which is not mentioned in the


question.


Question: 161 (   Incorrect - You answered: D )
You have taken over a project from a colleague who has moved to another department. One of the first issues you need to address is the concern of stakeholders not receiving timely reporting, leading them to make decisions based on faulty information. To understand stakeholder expectations best, the first thing you should do is:
A Ask the sponsor to communicate with key stakeholders
B Consult the Communications Management Plan
C Call an emergency meeting with key stakeholders
D Consult the Stakeholder EngagementPlan

Process - Task 12 - Manage Artifacts
While this is an important issue, this not an emergency and there is no reason to call an emergency meeting or to involve the sponsor. The Communications management plan will provide information about stakeholders' needs, requirements, and expectations. There is no such document as the stakeholder management plan, this is an excellent example of a distractor answer loosely referring to the Stakeholder Engagement Plan.


Question: 163 (   Incorrect - You answered: B )
Unfortunately, one of the sellers in a multi-year global project has failed to meet contractual objectives. After arbitration, the contract is now ready to close properly as a legal settlement was achieved. Which tool and technique should be employed now to ensure these kinds of vendor performance concerns do not happen in the future?
A Audit
B Procurement Management plan
C Project Performance Appraisal
D Contract Documentation

Process - Task 11 - Manage Procurement
An Audit is a structured review of the entire procurement process, and its objective is to identify successes and failures. Don't confuse this with Inspections, which look at the deliverable or work being done.


Question: 165 (   Incorrect - You answered: B )
You are an experienced project manager working on a high-profile health care project. You have numerous stakeholders across the country and all have differing viewpoints and requirements. You are working with your sponsor to finalize the project charter but can not seem to get everyone aligned. You schedule a meeting and watch as your sponsor skillfully leads the conversation to gain alignment and results in a project charter that everyone can adhere to. What interpersonal skills did the project sponsor utilize that you should incorporate into your on-going discussions with stakeholders?
A Facilitation and meeting management
B Negotiation, conflict management and team building
C Networking, negotiation and meeting management
D Conflict management, negotiation and networking

People - Task 9 - Collaborate with Stakeholders
In the Develop Project Charter process the Interpersonal and team skills include Conflict Management, Facilitation and Meeting management (Choice A), which are included as Interpersonal and Team Skills. Although the other skills listed are important, they are not primary skills noted as tools and techniques of Develop Project Charter.


Question: 167 (   Incorrect - You answered: B )
Jackie is a project manager working with a team of more than 30 people. One of her subordinates tells her that the team members at the lowest level are lazy, and that they need to be supervised more closely. Jackie responds that the workers are as committed to the project as she is, that they are ambitious and self-disciplined and do not need to be watched every minute of the day. Instead, Jackie proposes that each worker should be given more responsibility. Which type of manager is Jackie?
A Hygiene factor manager
B Theory Z manager
C Theory Y manager
D Theory X manager

People - Task 2 - Lead a Team
According to McGregor's Theory of X and Y (but not Z), Jackie is a Theory Y manager. She trusts her employees to be self-motivated and believes that they do not need to be watched every minute. Theory X managers feel the way the subordinate does in this


question -- they feel that workers are lazy and need to be watched constantly. Theory Z is a management theory where creating the expectation of having the job for life motivates them to perform their best.


Question: 169 (   Incorrect - You answered: D )
Your project selection committee is considering four projects. Project A's NPV is positive, it has an ERR of 14%, and the payback period is 21 months. Project B's NPV is negative, it has an ERR of 9%, and the payback period is 16 months. Project C's NPV is positive, it has an ERR of 16%, and the payback period is 18 months. Project D's NPV is negative, with an ERR of 16%, and the payback period is 13 months. Which project should you choose?
A Project A B Project B C Project C D Project D Process - Task 9 - Integrate Planning
Payback period is the least precise of all cash flow calculations, so you shouldn't give this a lot of consideration if NPV is positive and ERR is greater than 0. Since Project B and Project D both have negative NPV, they shouldn't be chosen. Project C has a higher IRR value than Project A and should be the project you choose.


Question: 170 (   Incorrect - You answered: D )
You are performing a measurement of a high performance screw to be used in the assembly of a new space rocket. The screw length will be measured and will either be in specification or out of specification. What is this known as?
A Variable sampling
B Statistical sampling
C Attribute sampling
D Binary sampling

Process - Task 7 - Manage Quality
A) If the measurement is on a continuous scale that measures the degree of conformity, it is known as variable sampling. Thus, choice A is incorrect. B) Statistical sampling is a method of selecting a few outputs from a larger lot to be inspected. Thus, choice B is incorrect. C) When a measurement has only two results - either conforms or does not conform - it is known as attribute sampling. D) There is no such thing as binary sampling, at least not for PMBOK Guide purposes. Thus, choice D is incorrect.


Question: 171 (   Incorrect - You answered: A )
You are a project manager for the state. You are managing a virtual team with team members dispersed throughout the state. You are preparing a document which outlines high-level requirements, known high-level risks, a summary budget, and a description of the project manager's level of authority. What knowledge area is being utilized here?
A Project Scope Management
B Project Stakeholder Management
C Project Integration Management
D Project Communications Management

People - Task 2 - Lead a Team
Project Integration Management, which focuses on the coordination of all components of project management, includes the development of the project charter (which is what the


question describes).


Question: 176 (   Incorrect - You answered: A )
A colleague has approached you for some expert advice. Her division is implementing Agile methods to their projects and wants to know if you will be able to offer her guidance and coaching during her first project. Which of the following are not examples of mentoring and coaching in this situation?
A Offer to be an Agile Coach to lead her through the various Agile ceremonies.
B Be present at the daily standups and offer guidance when needed.
C Advise her on things that have gone well and not so well on prior projects.
D Tell her which tasks to perform next throughout the project.

People - Task 13 - Mentor Stakeholders
Mentoring and coaching is advising and encouraging stakeholders to take the initiative and ask


questions when needed. Simply telling someone what to do is delegating, not coaching. PMI Authorized PMP Exam Prep Student Guide/ Page 237


Question: 179 (   Incorrect - You answered: A )
On a project, tailoring means determining the appropriate combination of processes, inputs, tools, techniques, outputs and life cycle phases to manage a project. In Project Stakeholder Engagement considerations for tailoring include all of the following except:
A Stakeholder diversity
B Complexity of stakeholder relationships
C Communication technology
D Frequency of steering committee reporting

People - Task 9 - Collaborate with Stakeholders
A, B, and C are all listed as items to tailor per the PMBOK Guide. How often the steering committee is reported too, should not be a factor.


Question: 180 (   Incorrect - You answered: D )
You are the project manager for an up and coming organization. This project is the first of its kind for the organization and the market. Your sponsor is excited and so are the shareholders who have invested in the company. During a planned review of processes, you hope to identify activities that bring no value to the project. The Sponsor also reviewed the project charter to refresh their memory of the scope of the project to support your efforts. Which statement best identifies the current situation?
A You are being audited by the Sponsor to ensure compliance to the project charter
B You are conducting an analysis of the process
C The quality department is reviewing your processes followed by formal acceptance of the results
D You are conducting a comparison of the project charter to executed work to ensure only work identified in charter is completeD Business Environment - Task 2 - Evaluate/ Deliver Benefits

Do not let the


question mislead you. Any information about the charter is irrelevant. You are conducting a process analysis which identifies opportunities for process improvements. It also identifies non-value-added activities and existing problems. If you answered A, you were caught by the red herring of the Sponsor reviewing the charter.
